雷米特杯失窃案 - The Theft of the Rimet Cup

目录

- TRC-01 领衔的人们 / The Leading Ones
- TRC-02 临时派对 / An Impromptu Party
- TRC-03 犬类的哲学 / Philosophy of the Puppies
- TRC-04 头条新闻 / Headline
- TRC-05 不回头 / No Turning Back
- TRC-06 航线合流 / Confluence of the Routes
- TRC-07 正中红心 / Hit the Bullseye
- TRC-08 非暴力合作 / Non-violent Cooperation
- TRC-09 天才调音师 / The Genius DJ
- TRC-10 小礼物 / A Small Gift
- TRC-11 空降嘉宾 / Out of the Blue
- TRC-12 泡泡无可破灭 / Bubbles Won't be Broken
- TRC-13 自由的频段 / The Channel of Freedom
- TRC-14 真相泛滥 / Information Overload
- TRC-15 选择题 / The Puppy's Choice
- TRC-16 皆大欢喜 / As We Like It

TRC-01 领衔的人们 / The Leading Ones

报童：大新闻！今日特大新闻！
Newsboy: Breaking news! Breaking news today!

报童：“新人类”公司为第十三届国际珠宝展再发悬赏，负责人声称，凡取走“伦敦之心”者，可前往邦德街15号领取百万赏金。
Newsboy: The New Humans Company announced they'd offer another reward for the 13th International Jewelry Show. The company claimed that the person who filches The Heart of London can collect a £1 million reward at No. 15 Bond Street.

报童：据可靠消息透露，已有数人失手被捕，其中包括“贪婪杰克”、雌雄大盗佩恩与崔斯特等知名大盗。——噢！您好，您好！
Newsboy: Reliable news sources reveal that several people have failed and been arrested, including big names like Greedy Jack, crime duo Pain and Drizzt ... Oh, excuse me! Hello!

报童：请别急着走，这位身着黑衣的美丽女士，您对今天的新闻感兴趣吗？来一份报纸吧！
Newsboy: Excuse me, the beautiful lady in black. Are you interested in the news of today? Grab a copy!

？？？：你是在说我吗？
???: Are you talking to me?

报童：没错，您转过身来了，说明……
Newsboy: Yeah, you've turned around, that's to say ...

报童：啊！您的……
Newsboy: Ah ... your ...

报童：抱歉，是……是我失礼了，我没有注意到您的……特别之处……
Newsboy: Sorry. My ... my bad. I didn't notice your ... uniqueness ...

？？？：不用道歉，贴心的孩子。能请你为我朗读今天的新闻吗？
???: No need to apologize, warm-hearted child. Could you please read me the news of the day?

？？？：我会支付适当的报酬。
???: I will pay appropriately.

报童：没问题，慷慨的女士！来，请坐在这边，这里能避开那些来来往往的人群。
Newsboy: Sure, my generous lady! Please, sit right here to get away from the crowds.

报童：咳咳，希望您不会介意我的嗓音有些干哑。
Newsboy: *coughs* Hope you don't mind my raspy voice.

报童：《伦敦近日治安问题十分严峻 民众支持率恐有下降风险》
Newsboy: "London faces severe public security issues. Approval rating might drop."

报童：《机车酒吧筹备街头摩托锦标赛 政府叫停无果》
Newsboy: "Ace Café prepares for Motorcycle Road Racing, government failed to halt."

报童：《摇滚海盗多次劫持广播频段 声称好戏即将开场》
Newsboy: "Rock pirate hijacks radio frequency, claiming 'fun is about to begin.'"

报童：《街头出现艺术怪人 警方提醒市民们警惕彩虹泡泡》……
Newsboy: "Artistic freak on street. Police warning over colorful bubbles." ...

是的。许多爆炸性的新闻都集中在了这一天。
Yes. Today is the day when multiple breaking news is published in the newspaper.

街头文化的浪潮，新旧秩序的冲突，渴望闯进聚光灯中的青年艺术家……
A wave of street culture, the conflict between the new and old order, and a young artist desiring to step onto the stage under the spotlight …

？？？：呵呵……
???: Heh heh ...

？？？：这会是一个很好的故事开头。
???: That will be a fantastic plot to start the story.

在无人注意的角落，从窗户外溜进来的不速之客小心翼翼地合上了警长的抽屉。
In a corner of the room, an unexpected "guest" sneaks in through the window. He closes the sergeant's drawer without making any noise.

办公室内的人们都忙于更重要的事，无人注意到这个小插曲。
Everyone in the office has their own business and thus pays no attention to such a slight action.

艾弗森：我们诚意十足，威廉警长。
Iverson: We are here with full sincerity, Sergeant William.

警长：是的，新闻上写满了你们的事情，伦敦上下无人不知。
Sergeant: Certainly. You made all our headlines. Londoners know what you've done.

警长：但是，你所希望的“安保公司参与伦敦治安”的提议并不符合执法规定。
Sergeant: However, your proposal for security companies in maintaining the security of London doesn't conform to the principles of law enforcement.

警长：况且，民众对于安保公司的戒心尚未完全消除。
Sergeant: What's more, the public is still alert to security companies.

警长：你也知道的，拉米雷斯事件发生后，人们对私人安保公司的信赖一落千丈……
Sergeant: You know, after the Ramirez Incident, people no longer trust security companies ...

艾弗森：拉米雷斯？哦，天啊，您怎么能把我们与一家“神秘学家企业”相提并论呢？
Iverson: Ramirez? Oh, Jesus! Why do you compare us with an "arcanist company"?

艾弗森：他们从不制定安保计划，不运用枪械与武力，脑子里装着愚蠢的奇思妙想，自然会惹出各种各样的乱子。
Iverson: They never make any security plans, nor do they resort to weapons or force. The only thing they have is the stupid brainwave, which definitely brings all kinds of trouble.

艾弗森：他们甚至声称拥有“超越所有小偷的想象力”。
Iverson: They even claim possessing "the imagination that goes beyond all thieves." Good heavens, do you believe that? Why would a security company think as a thief?

天啊，您能相信吗？哪个安保公司会用小偷的方式去思考？

警长：尽管不可思议，但他们曾经创造过无数奇迹，就如同现在的你们一样。
Sergeant: Well, hard to believe, though, they did create many miracles, just like what you are doing.

艾弗森：哼，不切实际的“想象力”安保能够在短时间内哗众取宠，却无法长久地奏效。
Iverson: Humph! Security that lives on the irrealistic "imagination" can amaze the public shortly, but the efficacy never lasts long.

艾弗森：我们可不会沦落到用一座冒牌奖杯来欺骗大众，更不会像他们的创始人一样，在争议中畏罪自杀。
Iverson: We are not that desperate to deceive the public with a fake trophy, nor will we commit suicide in the fear of punishment like their founder.

艾弗森：威廉警长，请您相信，“新人类”是一家走在正确道路上的机器人公司，我们有着完善的《安保指南》。
Iverson: Sergeant William, please trust us that New Humans is a robotics company doing the right cause. We have a well-formulated Guidance on Security.

艾弗森表情轻松地按下了手上的按钮。
Iverson presses the button with a pleased look.

？？？：……
???: ...

一个造型奇特的机器人驶入了房间。
A strange robot steps into the room.

警长：……？
Sergeant: ...?

艾弗森：这就是我们公司的最新研究产品——安全制约-Ⅰ型。
Iverson: This is our latest product—Security Control Type I.

艾弗森：它搭载了催泪喷剂、苦麦虫粉末、磁场干扰圈等用以应对一系列安保问题的装置，能够识别半径5米内的一切危险分子。
Iverson: It carries abundant security measures, including tear gas, endive worm powder, magnetic interference unit, and can detect any threat within a radius of five meters.

艾弗森：最重要的是，它完全可控，且具备173种危机应对预案。我认为，它们能够胜任警察先生们的可靠助手一职。
Iverson: Most importantly, it is fully under control and reacts to emergencies with 173 inbuilt programmes. Ha! I think it is a reliable helping hand of our police officers.

艾弗森：比如现在，当我们打开它的探测仪时……
Iverson: Just like now, if we switch on its sensor ...

机器人突然发出了刺耳的警报声。
Suddenly, the robot makes a loud warning sound.

安保机器人：检测到可疑人员，位置：第一张办公桌正下方，第二张，第三……目标正快速移动中。
Security Robot: Suspicious invader detected. Location: right under the first office desk, the second ... the third ... The target is moving quickly.

警长：它故障了吗？
Sergeant: Is it going wrong?

艾弗森：它们从不出错。
Iverson: It never goes wrong.

艾弗森先生快步走向窗户。
Iverson quickly walks to the curtain.

窗帘被一把掀开，一个鬼鬼祟祟的身影顺势站起身来。
The curtain is opened. A sneaking figure stands up.

？？？：嗨——
???: Hey! Hey!

？？？：先生们，还有这位敏锐的机器人朋友，你们好～
???: Gentlemen, and this very sensitive robot friend, hello!

艾弗森：……
Iverson: ...

警长：又是你？人呢？！汤姆森，快进来把这小子给我扔出去！
Sergeant: You! Again? Where's ... Thomson, get in here and kick him out right now!

挖掘艺术：等等，等等！我只是想和您聊聊关于洒水车的事儿，您瞧……
Diggers: Wait, wait! I just want to talk to you about the watering car. Look ...

警长：我说了很多次，根本没人关心波普元素之类的乱七八糟的东西。
Sergeant: I've told you a hundred times. Nobody ever cares about those God-knows-what pop elements.

挖掘艺术：波普，是的，波普！您竟然说出来了，这在当下还是一种前卫的艺术流派，我很高兴能与您如此志同道合！
Diggers: Pop, yes, pop! You just spoke it out. Currently, pop is still too avant-garde, so I'm very glad to meet someone with the same taste!

警长：那是因为你在我耳边念叨了几百次这些鬼东西！
Sergeant: That's because you've tediously repeated it for ages!

挖掘艺术：所以您理解了我们的理念，我相信其他人……
Diggers: So you can understand our philosophy, and I believe others will ...

艾弗森：原来如此，这是一个行为出格的破坏分子……关于此类违规行为，机器人同样有着对应的安保预案。
Iverson: I get it. This is a malicious rulebreaker. Such kind of violation can be tackled by the security plan installed in our robot.

艾弗森：伦敦需要它们的理由又多了一项，威廉警长。
Iverson: Sergeant William, here is another reason why London needs our robot.

挖掘艺术：机器人……？
Diggers: Robot ...?

艾弗森：正是为你们这些扰乱秩序的不安定分子准备的新举措。
Iverson: It's the new measure prepared for all discontented rulebreakers like you.

艾弗森：它能阻挡你们肆意妄为的举动，任何违反规定的行为都将受到安保机器人的严格制约！
Iverson: It will stop all your willful actions. Any violations will be severely restricted by our security robot!

挖掘艺术拍了拍机器人的头部。
Diggers pats the head of the robot.

挖掘艺术：看上去一点也不可靠。
Diggers: It looks not reliable at all.

他又戳了戳安保机器人的肢体。
Diggers pokes the body of the robot.

挖掘艺术：手感也远不如警犬们。
Diggers: And it's not as soft as police dogs, either.

挖掘艺术：你应该试试和那些毛绒绒的牧羊犬握手，这有助于改进这些机器人的情绪系统～
Diggers: You should try shaking hands with those fluffy shepherds. It helps shape the emotional system of your robot.

挖掘艺术：小狗们善良、活泼，并且通情达理。
Diggers: Puppies are friendly, lovely, and they can read your mind.

艾弗森：相当不成熟的建议。
Iverson: Ugh! Such a lame idea.

艾弗森：总有人讨厌那些毛绒绒的四足生物，它们的毛发附着在人们的鼻腔和衣服上，散发出挥之不去的难闻味道。
Iverson: Some people don't like those plushy quadrupeds. It's so difficult to get their hair off our noses and clothes. And their smell stinks.

艾弗森：警长先生，接下来我将为您演示安全制约-Ⅰ型的教化功能。
Iverson: Sergeant, now I will present you Security Control Type I—Moralization.

艾弗森：它拥有全面的、应对所有市民的预案，当然也有应对街头混混的。
Iverson: It has an all-round precaution plan installed for all citizens. And of course, it knows how to cope with you hooligans.

艾弗森：它绝不依赖难以捉摸的“想象力”。
Iverson: It doesn't rely on some impalpable "imagination."

警长：完全可控？
Sergeant: Totally controllable?

艾弗森：当然。
Iverson: For sure.

艾弗森按下了另一个按钮。
Iverson presses another button.

机器人开始闪烁剧烈的红光，它朝着挖掘艺术的方向一步步靠近。
The robot starts to blink in red and walks towards Diggers.

挖掘艺术：喂——！你故障了吗？铁皮怪物！
Diggers: Hey! Malfunctioning, you iron monster?

挖掘艺术：别靠过来！……你的手里是什么？放下，放下，这太粗鲁了！
Diggers: Keep away from me! What's in your hand? Pu-put it down. That's rude!

挖掘艺术：要和平，不要战争！
Diggers: We want peace, not war!

艾弗森满意地按下了开关。
Iverson presses the switch with pleasure.

安保机器人又回到了最开始的平静状态。
The robot calms down.

艾弗森：如您所见，威廉警长，我们的小机器人表现出色。
Iverson: As you've seen, Sergeant William, our robot excelled.

艾弗森：据我们的调研数据显示，“新人类”公司的公众支持率正稳步提升，他们信任机器人。
Iverson: According to our research data, New Humans is winning the public. People trust robots.

艾弗森：许多人期待着一个更安全、更平静的伦敦。
Iverson: They are looking forward to a safer and more peaceful London.

警长：这位机器人先生的才能令人惊讶。
Sergeant: Wow! The talent Mr. Robot just presented is stunning.

挖掘艺术挣扎着从刚才的状况中恢复过来，试图表达自己的意见。
Diggers struggles to recover from the defeat and tries to justify himself.

挖掘艺术：警长，不要相信他的胡言乱语！
Diggers: Sergeant, please don't believe the nonsense he just said!

挖掘艺术：伦敦需要天马行空的艺术派对，需要能让所有人发声的文化集市……
Diggers: London needs imaginative art parties. It needs street fairs for everyone to get their voice heard.

挖掘艺术：伦敦属于乌托邦。
Diggers: London is utopian.

挖掘艺术：我会办一场让更多人都乐在其中的盛会，届时我们的理想将会成为各大报刊与新闻记者的宠儿，一场新的主流。所有人都会了解它，然后爱上它！
Diggers: I will throw a feast for more people to have fun. By then, our philosophy will hit the headlines of all newspapers and become a new tidal trend. Everyone will get to know and fall in love!

警长：是吗？
Sergeant: Really?

警长：但我们只接到了无数人的投诉，尤其是对你的！
Sergeant: But we only received countless complaints, about you particularly!

挖掘艺术：大家只是需要一点时间来理解……
Diggers: People just need some time to digest …

艾弗森：伦敦已经混乱了太久，需要一场彻底的、全方位的整治与肃清。
Iverson: London has been in chaos for too long. We need to thoroughly and completely root out all dangers and threats.

警长：我非常同意你的意见，艾弗森先生。
Sergeant: I am in total agreement, Mr. Iverson.

警长：我想，新苏格兰场也会认真考虑安保机器人在伦敦发挥更重要作用的可能性。
Sergeant: I think New Scotland Yard will further consider the importance of security robots in London.

挖掘艺术：我反对！这是对公民权利的侵犯，是对自由的挑衅！
Diggers: Disapprove! This is a violation of civil rights and a defiance to liberty!

一阵急促的铃声打断了挖掘艺术的慷慨陈词。
A sudden ring interrupts Diggers's great speech.

艾弗森攥起机器人肩上的话筒，就像撕扯一个玩具。
Iverson snatches up the telephone from the robot's shoulder, like tearing up an arm from a doll's body.

安保员：艾……艾弗森先生！大事不好了！
Security Guard: Mr. ... Mr. Iverson, bad news ...

安保员：“伦敦之心”不见了……
Security Guard: The Heart of London is gone …

艾弗森：什么——？！
Iverson: What?!

挖掘艺术：……
Diggers: ...

慷慨陈词者显然注意到了这个能省下更多口水的逃脱时机。
The passionate speaker has noticed that it's a perfect chance to escape other than wasting time talking.

TRC-02 临时派对 / An Impromptu Party

？？？：真美啊……
???: It's beautiful!

？？？：这就是……父亲曾经保护过的东西。
???: This is what Father used to protect.

？？？：不过，现在是我的了。
???: But, it is mine now.

？？？：呵呵，无法识别真假焰火的机器人，只需几张硝酸闪光纸，就能让它们忠诚地打开所有的消防喷头。
???: Heh heh, the robots can't tell real fire from fake. Just a few sheets of nitrate flash paper, they'd turn on all the fire sprinklers loyally.

？？？：接着，溶入鼻涕虫香精的消防池水源源不断地从喷头里喷涌而出。
???: Then, a steady stream mixed with slug essence from the fire water reservoir gushed out of the sprinkler heads.

？？？：艾西老师，您有看到那群机器人被黏得无法动弹的模样吗？如果它们也有情绪，一定会把我咒骂得体无完肤，哈哈！
???: Ms. Acey, did you see how the robots were glued to the floor, unable to move? If they had emotions, they would have cursed me to death. Heh heh!

？？？：您对这份答卷还满意吗？艾西老师。
???: Are you satisfied with the answer, Ms. Acey?

艾西：还差最后一步，梅兰妮。
Ms. Acey: One last to go, Melania.

梅兰妮：哎呀，真是一位严格的老师。
Melania: Huuhh! What a strict mentor!

梅兰妮：放心吧，我会按计划回到旅馆里的，分秒不差！
Melania: No worries. I will get back to the hotel as planned, right on the dot!

梅兰妮：♪～♪～
Melania: *humming*

梅兰妮：下一个目的地，失眠夜旅馆，1132号房。
Melania: The next stop is Room 1132, Insomnia Nighty Hotel.

梅兰妮：进入摄政街之后，在第五座花坛的长椅上休息3分25秒，之后再转向蜜蜂号糖果屋旁的小巷……
Melania: Get to Regent Street. Take a rest on the bench at the fifth flower bed for 3 minutes and 25 seconds. Then turn into the lane next to Honey Candy House ...

艾西：咕噜。
Ms. Acey: Gurrr!

手提包突然窜动起来，似乎想从梅兰妮手中逃脱。
The handbag suddenly starts to shake. It seems it wants to escape from Melania.

梅兰妮：艾西老师？
Melania: Ms. Acey?

艾西：右边。
Ms. Acey: On your right.

巨大的震动从右边传来，一起出现的还有颇具节拍的音乐。
The ground on the right side starts vibrating with the strong beats of music.

一辆古怪的消防车缓缓驶入了摄政街。
A strange fire engine slowly drives into Regent Street.

梅兰妮：这是……发生什么了？！
Melania: What? Wh-What's going on?!

在人群的瞩目中，那辆涂着奇怪花纹的消防车将水筒高举过水箱，紧接着一个光滑的肥皂泡冒了出来，再然后就是更多、更多、更多的镜面小圆球。
In the witness of the crowd, the fire engine with strange patterns raises a bucket above the water tank. A glossy soap bubble comes out. Then more of the distorting, mirror-like spheres follow.

梅兰妮：消防车……泡泡……？
Melania: Fire engine ... bubbles ... ?

梅兰妮：这是最新的灭火手段？可是，它为什么会出现在这里？
Melania: Is this the latest way to extinguish fire? But why is it here?

梅兰妮：唔……咳咳！这个泡泡好像有什么问题。
Melania: *coughs* There seems to be something wrong with the bubbles.

艾西：不妙，快走。
Ms. Acey: Not good. Leave.

肥皂泡在日光下反射着奇妙的效果，似乎……能映照出不一般的景象。
The soap bubbles glisten in the sun. But what is shown on their reflective surface seems unusual.

梅兰妮警惕地遮挡住眼睛，朝反方向的街道跑去。
Melania shields her eyes cautiously and runs in the opposite direction.

梅兰妮：没错，只剩3分钟了，我得赶紧离开……
Melania: Oh, right. Only three minutes left. I ... I must go now.

“砰——！”
Bump!

幸福的路人：别挡路，嘿！你走错方向了，小朋友！
A Happy Passerby: Don't stand in the way, hey! That's not the direction, boy!

愉悦的过客：啊……它告诉了我，那是雪山上的滑雪场……度假胜地……
A Joyful Passerby: Ah, I see. That's a ski resort on the snowy mountain. Best place for vacation.

肥皂泡里美好的景象，吸引着人们一点点地向前探望。
Enticed by the visions of their dream lives reflected in the bubbles, the passersby are now moving slowly in one direction.

所有的人流都在朝消防车处集聚，在这样的波涛下，鱼也无法逆流。
They all walk in the same direction, and not a single man can reverse the flow. The crowd eventually stops at the fire engine.

梅兰妮：喂，喂——别挤我！等等！
Melania: Hey, hey! Don't push me! Wait!

有人从车窗里探出头来。
Someone sticks his head out of the car window.

挖掘艺术：年老的、年少的、热情的，以及羞涩的所有朋友们！
Diggers: Elders and youngsters, friends who are passionate or reserved!

挖掘艺术：欢迎来到砰砰飞盘摇滚派对！
Diggers: Welcome to the Bang Bang Frisbee Rock 'n' Roll Party!

挖掘艺术：这是一场即兴的、自由的、所有人都能参与的艺术盛会！
Diggers: This is an improvised and liberated event of art that everybody can join!

挖掘艺术：这儿是无所依托之邦，是我们的未来世界。
Diggers: This is the Utopia, where you can totally voyage far even with myopia. This is our world in the future. Hee hee ha!

梅兰妮：这是谁？
Melania: Who's this?

梅兰妮：一个在我必经之路上制造交通拥堵的混球？
Melania: Ugh! A knobhead causing traffic jams on my way?

艾西：时间不多了。
Ms. Acey: There's no time.

梅兰妮：呜……
Melania: Huumm.

梅兰妮：别紧张，别紧张。只要解决了这些泡泡……
Melania: Okay. Take it easy. Take it easy. Just fix these bubbles.

梅兰妮：有什么东西能派上用场吗？易形帽、黏人球、藏身杯子……
Melania: There must be something that works. Disguising caps, sticky balls, hiding cups ...

艾西：嗷呜呜噢。
Ms. Acey: Arrrggghhh.

梅兰妮：找到了！洁净灵水枪！
Melania: Found it! The Smart Detergent Gun!

梅兰妮：能同时射出23发洁净球，仅消一瞬，就可以让这儿亮洁如新。
Melania: Twenty-three detergent balls at one shot. In a flash, it will make this place shiny as new.

梅兰妮：哼哼，完美的答案～快还我通畅无阻的街道来！
Melania: Heh heh, perfect answer! Give me back my empty streets!

她扣动扳机，一颗颗墨绿色的果子向空中飘浮的肥皂泡飞散而开，如同盛开的烟花。
She fires the gun. Several dark-green bullets shoot out at the floating soap bubbles, and the scene is like a fireworks show.

艾西：不。
Ms. Acey: Don't.

艾西：它是……吸附灵。
Ms. Acey: It's ... Super Absorbent.

很快，泡泡们被一股股无名之力吸在了一起，凝成了一个巨型的透明球体。
Soon, the bubbles are gathered together by an unknown force and form a huge, transparent globe.

挖掘艺术：噢，我可爱的宝贝们，我热爱的正是你们主动交流的模样！再多来一点沟通吧，这是欧忒耳珀的授意，是忒耳西科瑞的启示。
Diggers: Oh, my adorable bubbles. Look how you embrace each other enthusiastically! Take it away! It is the summon of Euterpe, the revelation of Terpsichore.

挖掘艺术：谢谢你！那位前卫的、勇敢的、具有创新精神的戴皮帽女孩！
Diggers: Haha! Thank you so much! That avant-garde, courageous, and innovative girl in the leather cap!

梅兰妮：啊……
Melania: Ah ...

越来越多的人簇拥在消防车的后面，他们沉醉在自己的梦境中，仿佛镜面上显现的便是真实。
The crowd seems to be deeply caught in their reveries, believing what they see in the bubbles to be true.

这是一场不期而遇的派对。
This is an unexpected party.

梅兰妮：计划外的事情，莫名其妙的东西……唔，我好像也被那些景象影响了……
Melania: These unplanned and inexplicable things ... Ah, I think I'm also affected by the visions.

梅兰妮：交通彻底堵塞了，在2分25秒内恢复正常的可能性约等于零。
Melania: The traffic is totally congested. No chance to get back to normal in 2 minutes and 25 seconds.

皮鞋、眼镜、狗儿栓绳和飞盘被一起抛上天空，人群陷入了更长久的骚动。
Leather shoes, glasses, dog leashes, and frisbees have all been thrown into the sky. The crowd becomes even crazier.

逆行的人流堵住了梅兰妮的去路，她的意识与身体一同，被推搡着向后退去。
Those who walk in the opposite direction block Melania's way. Her body and her mind have been pushed backward.

梅兰妮：蜜蜂号糖果屋……失眠夜旅馆……
Melania: Honey Candy House ... Insomnia Nighty Hotel ...

梅兰妮：冷静下来，梅兰妮……
Melania: Calm down, Melania.

梅兰妮：你整理过伦敦所有街区的路线图……你需要一个新计划，一个天马行空的新计划……
Melania: You've sorted out a roadmap of all the blocks in London. You need a new plan, a bold new plan.

躁动的人群中，脏兮兮的流浪汉格外的快活。他在人流中行动自如，像一支准确的箭矢一样攥住了梅兰妮的手提包。
A tramp in the restless crowd is extremely happy. He freely walks in the crowd and takes Melania's handbag precisely.

流浪汉：派对，派对！都抛上天空去吧！你的杂志，你的皮包，全都一起——
Tramp: Woaaaa! Parties, parties! Throw them to the sky! Your magazines, your handbags ... Everything!

流浪汉：庆祝吧！哈哈哈！
Tramp: Celebraaaate! Hahahahaha!

查尔顿：喂！我的杂志——！你想干什么？
Charlton: Hey! That's my magazine! What are you doing?!

梅兰妮：你要拿艾西老师做什么？快还给我！
Melania: What are you going to do with Ms. Acey? Give it back to me!

那些有自主意识的肥皂泡愉悦地游荡在流浪汉身旁，令他被蓬勃的自信所充满。他无畏，英勇，像赫拉克勒斯一样要坚决地守护自己的战利品。
The soap bubbles, also the mind fragments of Diggers's, float around the tramp and fill him with confidence. He feels himself the most powerful, fearless, and courageous, like Hercules defending his war trophy.

查尔顿：留神点，他可是个疯子！
Charlton: Watch out. He's mad!

查尔顿：天啊，从外表可看不出他有这么大的力气！
Charlton: Geez! I can't tell his strength just from his appearance!

查尔顿：呼……那个什么，梅兰妮小姐，多亏了你的那些……让人眼花缭乱的东西的帮助，要不然我可就遭殃了！
Charlton: Phew, well, um, Ms. Melania, thank you for your ... bewildering variety of gadget. I would have been in trouble otherwise!

查尔顿：如果有什么我能为你效劳的事情，请尽管开口。
Charlton: If there is anything I can do for you, please let me know.

梅兰妮：时间已经结束了，我的计划……全都……
Melania: Time is over. My plan ... It all ...

抓着手提包的女孩垂下双肩，似乎还沉浸在一个沮丧的世界里。
The girl holding the handbag drops her shoulders. It seems she still lingers in a world of depression.

查尔顿：小姐？
Charlton: Miss ...?

查尔顿：糟了，你不会也被“镜面肥皂泡”给影响了吧？这可不行，在警察过来之前，你得清醒起来！
Charlton: Oh, no, you're not under the influence of Reflective Bubble, are you? That's not good. You need to wake up before the police come!

梅兰妮：警察？！
Melania: The police?!

梅兰妮：你说得对……我的答卷还没有完成，还有更多更重要的事情要做，决不能被困在这里。
Melania: You're right. I haven't finished my answer sheet. There are way more important things to do. I can't get stuck here. Huuhh!

她擦了擦脸，深吸了几口气，平静了下来。
She wipes her face, takes several deep breaths, and calms down.

梅兰妮：请告诉我离这儿最近，离警察局最远的旅馆——如果你真的想报答我的话。
Melania: Please, show me to the hotel, the one nearest to here and farthest from the police station, if you really want to thank me.

查尔顿：呃，安……安息旅馆？也许你能在那里碰碰运气，更好一点的选择就是失眠夜旅馆了，但很显然，去那儿的通路被愚蠢的消防车给堵住了。
Charlton: Err, Re-Rest Inn? Maybe you could take your chances there. A better choice would be Insomnia Nighty Hotel, but apparently, the way there is blocked by the stupid fire engine.

查尔顿：从这里拐过巷子的第三个路口就是安息旅馆。对了，记得留神那些在跟肥皂泡跳舞的人们，看好你的手提包，别像我这样……
Charlton: Rest Inn is around the third corner down the lane from here. By the way, stay away from those nutters dancing in bubbles and keep an eye on your handbag, so you don't end up like me.

他望着手里那份皱巴巴的《今日足球》杂志，叹了一口气。
He takes a glance at the worn-out magazine, World Soccer, in his hand and sighs.

查尔顿：唉，好不容易从报刊亭抢来了这个，结果被搞成了这样！
Charlton: Huuhh! I managed to grab it from the newsagent's, and this is what happened!

查尔顿：我的雷米特杯传说啊，我正是因为这期的栏目选题才买来收藏的……
Charlton: Oh, my Rimet Cup legend. I bought it for my collection precisely because of the column topic in this issue.

梅兰妮：雷米特杯？
Melania: The Rimet Cup?

查尔顿：是的，你也知道？就是那个在四年前被巴西队赢走的奖杯！
Charlton: Yes, you know it too? The same trophy that was won by Brazil four years ago!

查尔顿：它在展出时离奇失踪，被小偷神不知鬼不觉地换成了仿品，当时的安保公司束手无策，赔了大笔的保险费！
Charlton: It's suddenly missing during the exhibition and was replaced with a counterfeit by a thief when nobody knew. The security company failed to do anything and thus paid out a huge compensation.

查尔顿：而真品在几个月后才在垃圾桶里被找到。这个传奇的奖杯现在已经抵达了伦敦，它将会是给予胜利者的最美好的礼物！
Charlton: The genuine thing was only found in the trash months later. That legendary trophy has now arrived in London. It will be the most wonderful award given to the winner!

查尔顿先生说得兴起，丝毫没有注意到正在瞄准他的巨大肥皂泡。它显然对这个话题充满了兴趣。
While Charlton is fully wrapped up in the excitement of sharing his story, a huge bubble is slowly turning this way. It is attracted by his story too, obviously.

“砰——！”
Bang!

一股刚开封的酸溜溜火舌酒的味道迅速包围了他。
A smell of sour flame wine soon surrounds him.

查尔顿：咳咳，噢——
Charlton: *coughs* Whoaaa!

他感到鼻子一阵刺痛。那是镜面泡泡糟糕的副作用——因为它主动捕获了查尔顿，带着毛糙的触角。
Charlton feels a sharp sting in the nose. This is one of the awful side effects brought by these soap bubbles—they don't burst, instead, they capture their prey with invisible, frizzy antennae.

查尔顿感到头疼起来，眼前是撞上肥皂泡前斑斓的镜面景象。
Something seems to be burning in Charlton's head. The next second, the colorful bubble hits him with a gentle bump.

查尔顿：我眼花了吗？这儿居然是英格兰队的庆祝派对！而且是史上最盛大的，哇哈哈哈！
Charlton: Am I seeing things?! This is actually a celebration party for England! And it's the biggest ever, wah-hahaha!

查尔顿：皮克勒斯，皮克勒斯，快来！
Charlton: Pickles, Pickles, come on!

梅兰妮：查尔顿先生，您……还好吗？
Melania: Mr. Charlton, are you ... all right?

梅兰妮：现在是三月，距离世界杯的决赛还有一段相当长的时间。
Melania: It's March. Still quite a long way to go before the World Cup final.

查尔顿：……是吗？
Charlton: Is it?

查尔顿：感谢提醒，我得赶快去告诉皮克勒斯了，免得他也扑了个空。
Charlton: Thank you for reminding me. I need to tell Pickles in case he goes there for nothing.

查尔顿正打算转身离开。
Charlton is about to leave.

查尔顿：皮克勒斯，小皮克勒斯！
Charlton: Pickles, my little Pickles!

他摇晃着身子，趔趄着向前迈步，不出几步，又跌倒在地上。
He staggers a few steps and falls to the ground.

梅兰妮：唉，他不该放下戒备的，那些肥皂泡被施下了某种具有生命力的咒语……可怜的查尔顿先生。
Melania: Huuhh! He shouldn't have let his guard down. The bubbles from the fire engine must have been turned into a sort of lifeform by some specific incantations. Huuhh! Poor Mr. Charlton.

梅兰妮：我建议您试试这个。
Melania: I suggest you try some of this.

梅兰妮从包里拿出了一瓶喷雾，朝着查尔顿的鼻子喷了上去。
Melania takes a bottle of mist spray from her handbag and sprays it at Charlton's nose.

梅兰妮：臭臭泥清新剂，它能以粗暴的破坏力净化附近的空气……只不过有一点轻微的副作用。
Melania: Stinky Mud Freshener. It cleans the air nearby with its brutal destructive power, only with a slight side effect.

查尔顿：噗——！咳咳咳……咳咳！
Charlton: Poof! *coughs*

查尔顿鼻头变得通红，他在地上急促地喘息了一会儿，逐渐恢复平静。
The tip of Charlton's nose becomes red. He sits on the ground, gasps for a while, and gradually calms down.

查尔顿：啊，感觉舒服多了，差点就要喘不过气来了……呼呼……
Charlton: Ah, I feel so much better now. I almost couldn't breathe. Phew!

他正想要道谢，却发现拎着手提包的女孩已经走了很远。
He is about to say thank you, but soon realizes the girl with a handbag has gone.

查尔顿：嘿！谢谢你，梅兰妮小姐！
Charlton: Hey! Thank you, Ms. Melania!

查尔顿：愿上帝保佑你一路顺风！
Charlton: God bless you and have a safe journey!

他拍拍身上的灰尘，却发现自己手中的杂志消失了，取而代之的是一瓶奇形怪状的喷雾剂。
He wipes out the dust on his clothes but finds the magazine missing. Instead, there's a strange bottle of mist spray in his hand.

查尔顿：……？
Charlton: ...?

梅兰妮将一本皱巴巴的杂志塞进手提包里。
Melania puts a worn-out magazine into her handbag.

再转几个弯，她就能抵达新计划中的终点——安息旅馆。
After taking several more corners, she will arrive at the newly set destination—Rest Inn.

梅兰妮：不用客气，查尔顿先生。我想臭臭泥清新剂会更适合你。
Melania: You're welcome, Mr. Charlton. I think the Stinky Mud Freshener would suit you better.

梅兰妮：愿上帝保佑你早日找到你的小皮克勒斯～
Melania: God bless you to find your little Pickles soon.

TRC-03 犬类的哲学 / Philosophy of the Puppies

黑白相间的牧羊犬安心地趴在未经修理的花圃里，参差不齐的杂草与野花把他掩藏得很好。
A black-and-white shepherd dog lies carefree on the unkempt lawn. He is perfectly covered by the weeds and wild flowers.

卡纳比街少有如此清闲的时刻。
Leisure is a treasure for Carnaby Street.

皮克勒斯：阿嚏——！
Pickles: Achoo!

这无疑是短暂的。
But it never lasts long.

？？？：汪汪～
???: Woof woof!

皮克勒斯：嗯……汪汪？！<温迪……你是怎么找到这儿来的？！>
Pickles: Hmm ... Woof woof?! <Wendy, how did you get here?!>

在一阵兴奋的叫声之后，小狗们收到了集合的信号，它们从商店里、消防栓旁、马路边结队出现，无一例外地冲向了皮克勒斯的藏身处。
Hearing Wendy's excited barking, lots of puppies start to gather. They run out of stores, leave fire hydrants, appear on the other side of the road, and rush to the place where Pickles is hiding.

温迪：汪——！
Wendy: Woof woof!

皮克勒斯：汪汪，汪汪汪。<我并没有夸赞你的意思……尽管对我们而言，敏锐的嗅觉确实很重要。>
Pickles: Woof, woof, woof woof woof. <I have no intention to make any compliments, although a sharp sense of smell is indeed important for us.>

皮克勒斯：汪、汪汪。<但我们仍需考虑一些更本质的，一些比嗅觉更重要的东西。>
Pickles: Woof woof, woof woof woof. <We still need to consider something more essential, something that matters more than the sense of smell.>

皮克勒斯：呜……汪汪？汪？<比如说……我们的存在意味着什么？我们为何生活在这里？>
Pickles: Woof woof? Woof woof? <For example ... What's the meaning of our existence? What's the purpose of living here?>

温迪：呜……？
Wendy: Woof?

皮克勒斯：嗯……汪、汪汪。<为了赢得即将举行的长毛绒绒运动会……当然不是。>
Pickles: Woof woof … <You think it's for the coming Fluffy Sports Meeting? Of course not.>

皮克勒斯叹了口气。
Pickles sighs.

纳尔森：汪汪汪！
Nelson: Woof woof woof!

皮克勒斯：汪汪、汪……<重点自然也并非“新增项目是老鼠追捕赛”……>
Pickles: Woof, woof woof. <And it's definitely not for the latest "Rats-Capturing Race.">

皮克勒斯：汪汪，汪呜——？<我希望表达的是，这个世界有什么非我们不可的理由吗？>
Pickles: Woof, woof woof, woof ...? <What I'm saying is, in this world, why have to be us?>

皮克勒斯：汪，汪汪？<我们是独立的个体，还是仅仅作为某人的宠物而存在？>
Pickles: Woof woof woof? <Are we independent individuals, or just some human's pets?>

爱丽丝：呜……
Alice: Huumm.

温迪：汪、汪汪！
Wendy: Woof woof!

皮克勒斯又叹了一口气。
Pickles sighs again.

皮克勒斯：汪，汪汪汪、汪汪……<温迪，你是条讨人喜欢的聪明狗狗，人类很乐意把球抛出去，再等你捡回来……>
Pickles: Woof woof woof woof … <Wendy, you are an adorable and smart puppy. Humans would love to throw the ball and wait for you to pick it up ...>

皮克勒斯：汪，呜呜……？<但如果有一天，你不小心掉进了下水道里呢？>
Pickles: Woof, woof ...? <But what if, one day, you accidentally fall into a sewer?>

皮克勒斯：汪、汪汪。<你在赛场上迷路了，被永远地留在了满是老鼠的下水道里。>
Pickles: Woof, woof woof. <Like, you lost your way during racing and could only stay in the sewer full of rats forever.>

皮克勒斯：汪汪……<而另一只与温迪一模一样的小狗替代了你……>
Pickles: Woof, woof … <Meanwhile, one puppy who looks exactly the same as Wendy replaces you ...>

皮克勒斯：汪汪，汪……<它有着温迪的记忆与行为，甚至想法也完全一致……>
Pickles: Woof, woof … <And it remembers the same, behaves the same, and thinks the same way as you do ...>

皮克勒斯：汪、汪呜——？<到了那个时候，温迪还是我们熟悉的那只小狗吗？>
Pickles: Woof, woof, woof ...? <By that time, will this "Wendy" be the puppy we know?>

其他小狗们听得很入神。
The other puppies are listening to Pickles with full attention.

温迪：呜——獒！獒！
Wendy: Woof, woooooof?!

皮克勒斯：汪、汪汪，汪。<是的，它也擅长找回橡胶弹球，让所有狗为之侧目。>
Pickles: Woof, woof. <That's right. It's also skilled at finding plastic balls and impresses all the other puppies.>

皮克勒斯：嗯……汪汪，汪呜？<所以说，我们究竟是基于过往至今的经历与思维而存在，还是别的什么更遥远的东西？>
Pickles: Woof , woof woof? <In that case, do we exist for our past experiences and thoughts, or something more than that?>

温迪：呜、呜呜——？！
Wendy: Woof ... Woof ... Woo?

皮克勒斯：呜……<对不起。>
Pickles: Woof. <I'm sorry.>

皮克勒斯：汪汪，汪……嗯。<我不该把你独一无二的找球能力分享给别人……尽管这并不是，好吧，这只是个恐怖故事。>
Pickles: Woof, woof woof, woof, woof. <I should not make the hypothesis that your unique ball-hunting ability belongs to others, although it's not a ... Well, it's just a horror story.>

温迪：汪汪——！
Wendy: Woof woof!

皮克勒斯：汪。<感谢你的原谅。>
Pickles: Woof, woof.<Thank you for your understanding.>

这一次，皮克勒斯并没有再叹气。
This time, Pickles doesn't sigh.

他独自朝着街道的另一端走去，影子被阳光拉得很长。
He walks to the other side of the street alone, with his shadow pulled long by the sun.

爱丽丝：呜——？
Alice: Woof?

皮克勒斯：吽，吽吽。<别担心，我只是想搞点馅料满满的苹果派。>
Pickles: Woof, woof, woof. <Don't worry. Now I'm just looking for some mouthwatering apple pie.>

皮克勒斯：汪汪。<也祝愿你们比赛顺利。>
Pickles: Woof woof. <And I wish you all the best in the game.>

皮克勒斯小心翼翼地避开人群，他终于找到了一个难得的安静树荫。
Pickles avoids the crowd and eventually finds a quiet place to rest.

皮克勒斯：狺狺。<或许寻求理解本身就是一种谬误。犬与人无法真正地相互理解，甚至与其他犬们也不能。>
Pickles: Woof woof. <Maybe I was wrong from the beginning to look for mutual understanding. There is no such thing between dogs, let alone between dogs and humans.>

皮克勒斯：狺、狺狺。<我应该考虑换一种生活，也许远方会有真正能够理解我的朋友。>
Pickles: Woof woof woof. <Maybe I should lead a different life. Maybe there are friends who can truly understand me somewhere far away.>

皮克勒斯：狺——？<那么，我做好了离开的准备了吗？>
Pickles: Woof? <So, am I ready to leave?>

皮克勒斯抬头望天。
Pickles stares at the sky.

现在仍是三月，樱树上却意外地结出了苹果。
It's still March, but why is there an apple on the cherry tree?!

APPLe：机车酒吧正门位于北环路，与终点的距离约为4.803英里。
APPLe: Hmm. The front door of Ace Cafe faces the North Circular Road. It is around 4.803 miles from the destination.

APPLe：星锑船长的时速为65英里，但考虑到比赛的要求，抵达这儿只需要更短的时间。
APPLe: Captain Regulus drives at 65 miles an hour. Given the rules of the racing, she will arrive earlier.

皮克勒斯：汪……汪？！<一颗过早成熟的、会说话的苹果……>
Pickles: <speed=1.3>Woof ... woof?! <A premature apple ... that can talk ...>

皮克勒斯：汪汪汪……<我没有嗅过什么奇怪的东西，不应该看到幻觉……>
Pickles: <speed=1.4>Woof woof woof … <I haven't sniffed anything poisonous, so this shouldn't be hallucination ...>

皮克勒斯：狺……<我想我真的饿昏头了……>
Pickles: Woof woof … <I assume it's because I'm hungry ...>

APPLe：嗯？这儿有一只可爱的小狗。
APPLe: Hmm? There is a lovely puppy.

苹果先生缓缓从高空中降落下来。
Mr. APPLe slowly falls down.

APPLe：你好，小狗先生。
APPLe: Hello, Mr. Puppy.

皮克勒斯：吽，吽吽。<噢，这不是幻觉。你的气味告诉我……你也是一位神秘学家。>
Pickles: Woof, woof woof. <Oh, not a hallucination. Your smell shows that ... you are also an arcanist.>

皮克勒斯：汪。<您好，苹果先生。>
Pickles: Woof. <Hello, Mr. Apple.>

皮克勒斯：汪，汪汪。<这是我第一次遇见其他的，不那么像人类的神秘学家。>
Pickles: Woof woof woof. <This is the first time I met another not-so-human arcanists.>

皮克勒斯：……
Pickles: ...

皮克勒斯：汪汪，汪汪汪。<我原以为只有我是如此的异类，理所当然地孤立在人群之外。>
Pickles: Woof woof woof woof woof. <I thought I'm the only alien ... being isolated from other arcanists.>

APPLe：你看上去有些激动，小狗先生……你饿了吗？
APPLe: You look a bit nervous, Mr. Puppy. Are you hungry?

APPLe：我想……我下落得不是时候。
APPLe: Perhaps it is not a good time to fall.

皮克勒斯：汪汪。<不，您来得正是时候。>
Pickles: Woof woof. <No, it's exactly the right time.>

皮克勒斯：汪汪汪。<我有很多关于神秘学家的问题需要向您求证。>
Pickles: Woof woof woof. <I have so many questions about arcanists and I'm hoping you can help me.>

APPLe：请不要随便露出舌头，这会让APPLe某压力倍增。
APPLe: Please don't show me your tongue at random. Makes this APPLe feel stressed out.

APPLe：船长，救我。
APPLe: Captain, help.

皮克勒斯：嗯……汪汪？<您在呼喊另一位朋友？您还认识其他的神秘学家吗？>
Pickles: Woof woof? <Are you calling your friend? Do you know any other arcanists?>

皮克勒斯：汪汪、汪？<他也与您形态相仿？就像另一颗智慧的苹果？>
Pickles: Woof woof woof? <Does your friend share the same appearance as yours? Like another wise apple?>

皮克勒斯的眼神里写满了期待。
Excitement can be read in Pickles's eyes.

APPLe：当我提到船长的名字时，你似乎兴致满满。
APPLe: Your eyes seemed to light up when I mentioned my captain.

APPLe：如果星锑船长能够顺利结束比赛，我或许能为你们互相引荐……现在，让我们拉开距离，小狗儿……
APPLe: If Captain Regulus finishes the racing trouble-free, I might introduce you to her. But now, let's stay away from each other, puppy.

皮克勒斯：狺狺。<听上去是一个特别的名字。>
Pickles: Woof woof. <Sounds like a special name.>

APPLe：哦？看起来你对“星锑船长”很感兴趣？
APPLe: Oh? It seems you are quite interested in "Captain Regulus."

APPLe：她是一位流浪在自由广阔的公海之上，所有强权者和老古董都抓不住的伟大海盗。
APPLe: Wandering across high seas, she is a great pirate who never gets caught by all the Orwellian and the conservatives.

APPLe：这个说法足够确切吗？希望我的用词能够达到船长要求的标准。
APPLe: Is my explanation precise enough? Hope my wording meets Captain's requirement.

皮克勒斯：汪？汪汪？！<她的身份是海盗吗？而不是另一位身为苹果的神秘学家？>
Pickles: Woof, woof woof?! <Is your friend a pirate? Instead of another apple arcanist?>

皮克勒斯：汪汪……呜。<但听起来您能和她互相理解……我很好奇其中的缘由。>
Pickles: Woof woof. <But seems you can understand each other. I wonder why.>

APPLe：我猜你会喜欢星锑船长的。
APPLe: I think you will like her.

皮克勒斯：汪，汪汪……<我很羡慕您……不必被迫接受低级的、乏味的爱好，更不需要考虑如何躲避类似枕头大战、抛球比赛之类的邀请。>
Pickles: Woof woof. <That's what I'm longing for. No indecent or boring hobbies, no worries about refusing invitations such as pillow fights or catching balls ...>

皮克勒斯：吽——！吽吽。<您是如何解决的？尤其是当您的人类同伴完全无法理解您时。>
Pickles: Woof, woof woof? <What's your solution to that? Especially when your human companion cannot understand you at all?>

APPLe：我们大多时候都在伦敦的各处流浪，船长热衷于一切新奇的、有趣的事。
APPLe: Most of the time, we are wandering in London. Captain is fond of anything novel and funny.

皮克勒斯：狺……狺狺。<流浪……听上去是一个不错的选择。>
Pickles: Woof ... Woof woof. <Wandering ... Sounds like a good choice.>

皮克勒斯：汪汪、汪。<我会慎重考虑您的提议……谢谢您，苹果先生。>
Pickles: Woof woof woof. <I will consider your suggestion carefully ... Thank you, Mr. Apple.>

街上的不远处传来了引擎的轰鸣声，剧烈的碰撞声，以及少女的呼喊声。
The sounds of a roaring engine, a collision, and a girl's screaming come from the street nearby.

APPLe：很抱歉，小狗，但我得走了，星锑船长似乎遇到了麻烦。
APPLe: Oh, I am sorry, little puppy. I have to go. Captain Regulus seems to be in trouble.

APPLe：很高兴能与你聊天。希望下次见面时，我能完全理解你的意思。
APPLe: I really enjoyed our conversation. Hope I can fully understand what you say next time.

APPLe：或许我能做出点儿小东西来帮助我们相互交流……
APPLe: Or, maybe I can invent a tool to help us communicate.

APPLe：再见，小狗。汪汪汪～
APPLe: See you, puppy. Bark, bark!

皮克勒斯：汪？<嗯?>
Pickles: Woof? <Hmm?>

TRC-04 头条新闻 / Headline

摄政街的闹剧似乎随着警笛声的密集到来划上了句号，街道又恢复了往日的平静。
The farce in Regent Street seems to finish as the siren alarms. The street returns to its quiet status as usual.

除了那位正打算从消防车旁偷偷溜走的鬼祟身影。
Except for a sneaking figure who tries to escape from the fire engine.

警察：站住！例行检查。
Police Officer: Freeze! Routine check.

警察：请提交您的消防车驾驶证明。
Police Officer: Your fire engine driving license, please.

他终于转过身来。
He eventually turns around.

挖掘艺术：您好，尊敬的警察先生～
Diggers: Hello, Mr. Officer.

警察：怎么又是你！
Police Officer: Again?!

警察：最近一个月，你已经光顾了十三次警局。拨弄大本钟的指针，在唐宁街10号搞玻璃窗画展，用防水涂料给伦敦塔染色……
Police Officer: Within a month, you visited the police station 13 times, stirring the pointers of Big Ben, doodling at 10 Downing Street, dyeing Tower Bridge with waterproof paints ...

警察：你这次又胡闹了一场街头派对，是吗？
Police Officer: This time, you threw a messy street party, didn't you?

挖掘艺术：咳咳，这并不是胡闹，警察先生。
Diggers: Ahem! It was not a mess, police officer.

警察：你现在涉嫌妨碍公共交通，我们有权直接逮捕你！
Police Officer: You are suspected of breaking traffic laws. It's reasonable for us to arrest you right now!

挖掘艺术：且慢，警察先生……我的行为是合规的。
Diggers: Oh, wait, police officer! Wh-What I did is legitimate.

挖掘艺术：我向警长提交了消防车使用说明，并且得到了批准。
Diggers: I've applied for the use of fire engine to the sergeant and got approved.

挖掘艺术扬了扬手里的小纸条。
Diggers shows the note in his hand.

挖掘艺术：请您过目，警察先生～
Diggers: Please feel free to check, Mr. Officer.

警察：……
Police Officer: ...

警察：…………
Police Officer: …

警察：警长怎么会同意这项荒唐的审批……
Police Officer: Humph! I can't believe the sergeant would approve such a ridiculous application.

挖掘艺术：事实如此。
Diggers: That's what he approved.

警察：那你打算怎么解释那些稀奇古怪的泡泡？
Police Officer: But how are you gonna justify those weird bubbles?

挖掘艺术：您说的是哪一种？
Diggers: Which one are you referring to?

挖掘艺术：是能反射出人们美梦的镭射肥皂泡？
Diggers: The Laser Bubble that reflects people's dreams?

挖掘艺术：它让整个广场的人昏睡了两天，他们获得了人生中最意外、最美好的一次假日，坦白说，我很羡慕他们。
Diggers: It caused all the people at the square to fall into a deep sleep for two whole days. They experienced the most unexpected but best holiday ever. Honestly, I really envy them.

警察：……
Police Officer: ...

挖掘艺术：再不然是我的经典之作——空想肥皂泡？
Diggers: Or, you mean the classic work of mine, the Revery Bubble?

挖掘艺术：不麻烦的话，您能透露一下警局里其他人员的使用反馈么？我正在收集一些改进配方的灵感。
Diggers: If it's convenient to you, could you please disclose the feedback of other officers? I need some inspiration to revise my formulas.

挖掘艺术：那些警员们从肥皂泡里看到了什么？是束手就擒的犯罪分子，还是一纸升职通知？
Diggers: What did those officers see when they enjoyed my bubbles, surrendered criminals or a promotion announcement?

警察：够了！这一次，我们肯定能分析出里面的古怪成分。
Police Officer: Enough! This time, we will absolutely find out the odd ingredients in the bubbles.

警察：你瞒不了所有人。
Police Officer: You can't deceive all of us.

挖掘艺术：如果你们能成功打开它的储水罐的话。
Diggers: Only if you guys can open the water tank.

挖掘艺术指了指那辆被警车们团团围住的消防车。
Diggers points at the fire engine surrounded by police cars.

挖掘艺术：至少现在，你们证据不足，警察先生。
Diggers: At least up to now, you don't have enough evidence, Mr. Officer.

警察：……
Police Officer: ...

警察：好，我现在要求你作为目击证人配合调查！
Police Officer: Fine, I now ask you to cooperate with our investigation as the witness.

挖掘艺术：呃……
Diggers: Ugh ...

挖掘艺术：好吧，我会留在这儿，直到你们找到新的证据。
Diggers: Alright, I'll stay here till you find new evidence.

警察：看住他。
Police Officer: Eye on him.

警员：是。
Policeman: Yes sir.

挖掘艺术：……
Diggers: ...

警察们在消防车上忙碌了起来，挖掘艺术突然捂住了肚子蹲了下来。
The police officers start to investigate the fire engine. Diggers suddenly bends down and clutches his belly.

挖掘艺术：嘶——疼……！
Diggers: Hiss ... Ahhh ...!

警员：你又在搞什么鬼？给我站起来。
Policeman: What the hell are you doing? Get up off the floor.

年轻的警员粗鲁地拉起挖掘艺术，却没留意到一个镀着反光膜的肥皂泡即将形成。
The young and naive police officer rudely pulls Diggers up, but he fails to notice a bubble with a reflective surface forming behind him.

挖掘艺术：呼——！
Diggers: Huffff!

警员：唔……
Policeman: Ugh ...

挖掘艺术：做个好梦～
Diggers: Nighty night.

他正蹑手蹑脚地朝着摄政街的尽头走去，全神贯注地默数着告别警铃的每一步脚印，那是他与自由的距离。
He is sneaking to the end of Regent Street and attentively counting his steps—the steps away from the siren, the steps towards freedom.

但他似乎完全没注意到越来越近的引擎声与海盗气急败坏的大声警告。
But it seems that he totally ignores the approaching engine sound and the anxious warning of a pirate.

？？？：闪开——！
???: Back off!

？？？：别撞上来——！
???: Get out of my way!

灯光熠熠的摩托车在空中划出一道漂亮的抛物线，最后精准地降落在花坛与围墙之间的缝隙里。
The shiny motorcycle draws a beautiful parabola in the sky and eventually lands precisely in the gap between the flower bed and the wall.

车上的摇滚女孩与追求自由的嫌疑人撞成了一团。
The rock girl on the motorcycle crashes into the liberty-seeking suspect.

？？？：痛……
???: Ouch ...

挖掘艺术：嘶——
Diggers: Hiss ...

至少，他们都抵达了各自的终点，卡纳比街。
At least they have arrived at their common destination, Carnaby Street.

挖掘艺术：该死！到底是从哪儿来的菜鸟车手……
Diggers: Whoa! Are you a first-time driver?

？？？：你毁了我的比赛！小子！
???: Ahhh! You ruined my game! Boy!

挖掘艺术：你是……？
Diggers: It's you ...

挖掘艺术：星锑？！那个招摇撞骗的摇滚海盗！
Diggers: Regulus! That rock pirate fraudster!

星锑：你认识我？
Regulus: You know me?

星锑：该死，我就知道要留意你们这些在赛道上埋伏的便衣警察！
Regulus: Damn it. I knew I had to watch out for you undercover cops lying in ambush around the track!

挖掘艺术：你觉得我看起来像个便衣警察？……我完全不接受这种污蔑！
Diggers: What makes you think I'm an undercover cop? This is stigmatization!

星锑：呃，好吧，你说得对。警察们应该不会穿着这么邋遢的衣服。
Regulus: Uh, well, you're right. Cops shouldn't be wearing such ragged clothes.

挖掘艺术：什么？这……这是反对物质的象征，是崇尚自由的符号！
Diggers: What? This ... this is a demonstration against the materialistic life, the code of freedom!

挖掘艺术：咳，尽管你没有把我和那些行为滑稽的笨蛋警察们混为一谈，但我仍建议你使用更严谨的区分尺度。
Diggers: Ahem. Though you didn't mistake me with those stupid cops, I still suggest you better distinguish us.

星锑：哈哈，一个幽默的建议！邋遢小子。
Regulus: Haha, a humorous suggestion! Ragged lad.

红色的球形身影，轻飘飘地在一旁落下。
A red globe gently falls down next to Regulus.

APPLe：机体轻微刮花，传动系统运转正常，减速系统稍有问题……
APPLe: There are some slight scratches on the coat, the transmission system functions well, the braking system is not very well ...

星锑：APPLe先生？你回来了！
Regulus: Mr. APPLe?! You're back.

APPLe：你的爱车看起来并无大碍。
APPLe: ... Your vehicle looks fine.

APPLe：船长，你还好吗？
APPLe: Captain, are you alright?

星锑：一点儿也不好！
Regulus: No, I'm not!

星锑：我本可以赢下这一届比赛……但邋遢小子毁了这一切，他毁了我的比赛，毁了我登上颁奖台的阶梯，毁了一颗冉冉升起的赛车新星！！！
Regulus: I could have won this, but it all went to pot. The ragged lad ruined my game, my chance to be a podium winner. He ruined a rising racing star!!!

挖掘艺术：咳咳——
Diggers: Ahem.

挖掘艺术：我必须再次提醒你，对个人名誉的侵犯很有可能招致我的诉讼公函。
Diggers: I need to warn you again that any defamation might cause a lawsuit.

星锑：哼。
Regulus: Hmph!

星锑：本来就是因为你闯进了赛道，邋遢小子。
Regulus: It was your fault! You broke into the track, ragged lad!

这里的动静吸引了另一拨人的注意。
The chaos here arouses the attention of another batch of people.

APPLe：先生，你说的诉讼公函，是指那些正在迅速向我们靠近的人吗？
APPLe: Sir, the lawsuit you were talking about ... Are you referring to those who are approaching?

挖掘艺术：什么？糟糕，我被发现了！
Diggers: What? Bloody hell! They found me!

警察们的脚步声愈发清晰。
The police officers are getting closer.

警察：卡纳比街请求支援。
Police Officer: Carnaby Street, call for backup.

警察：根据威廉警长传来的最新讯息，他的印章已确认被盗。
Police Officer: According to the latest update from Sergeant William, his seal has been stolen.

警察：嫌疑人挖掘艺术涉嫌违规使用消防车、伪造警章、袭击警员等一系列罪名……
Police Officer: The suspect, Diggers, is suspected of committing a series of crimes, including illegally using fire engines, forging police ID, attacking police officer ...

星锑：啧啧。
Regulus: Ugh!

警察：我们还发现有人在街道上举办非法摩托锦标赛，极有可能是通缉令上的摇滚海盗星锑……
Police Officer: We also found someone illegally held an MRR competition on the street, and the suspect is likely Regulus, the rock pirate on the wanted list.

挖掘艺术：啧啧。
Diggers: Ugh!

警察：都给我站住！配合调查。
Police Officer: You two, freeze! Cooperate with our investigation.

星锑＆挖掘艺术：哇！快溜——！
Regulus & Diggers: Whoa! Run!

有人侥幸逃脱了追捕，有人不幸被关进了警车。
Someone escapes, while someone unfortunately gets arrested.

总得有人成为那名落选者。
Either of them has to lose the game, sadly.

APPLe：他还好吗？
APPLe: Is he alright?

星锑：也许吧，如果他那些信誓旦旦的发言都可信的话。
Regulus: Maybe, if all his statements are to be believed.

星锑：你还记得他最后说了什么吗？
Regulus: Do you remember what he said at the end?

APPLe：他嘱咐我们一定要关注明天的报纸，头版新闻。
APPLe: He told us to read tomorrow's newspaper, the headline.

星锑：这算是讣告吗？APPLe先生，我打算为今晚的摇滚电台新增一期保留栏目。
Regulus: Is that an obituary or something? Mr. APPLe, I'm going to add a special session for Rock Radio tonight.

APPLe：什么？
APPLe: What?

星锑：“最坏的开始与最好的结局——致我们永远的邋遢小子”。
Regulus: "The Worst Beginning and the Best Ending—To Our Forever Ragged Lad"

TRC-05 不回头 / No Turning Back

一个美好的开始并不意味着能得到一个最完满的结局。
A good beginning doesn't bring a happy ending.

这一条定理总能得到反复的应验。
This theorem always holds true.

梅兰妮：终于回来了……
Melania: Finally, I'm back.

梅兰妮：25分38秒……我居然迟到了整整15分钟……
Melania: … 25 minutes and 38 seconds, huuhh! I can't believe I'm 15 minutes late.

梅兰妮：呜……都怪那台可恶的消防车！
Melania: Ugh! Blame it all on that bloody fire engine!

艾西：应变能力仍有不足。
Ms. Acey: Still needs to work on your flexibility.

梅兰妮：……
Melania: ...

梅兰妮：我还在努力，艾西老师。
Melania: I'm trying, Ms. Acey.

艾西：开始最后一步。
Ms. Acey: Now, the final step.

梅兰妮：好！进行最后一步——留下合照的记录！
Melania: Yes! The final step—take a photo of the reunion!

她伸出手，在艾西的肚子里四处摸索，最终扯出一台造型别致的相机。
She reaches into Acey's belly and finally takes out a special camera.

梅兰妮高举着相机，另一只手拿着“伦敦之心”，摁下了快门。
Melania holds the camera with one hand, grasps The Heart of London with the other, and presses the shutter.

“咔嚓——”
*Ka-chick*

梅兰妮：虽然在最后遇到了一点阻碍，但这份答卷总算圆满完成了。
Melania: Although there was a little challenge at the end, I was able to complete the answer sheet successfully.

梅兰妮：唔，照相的时候表情更自然一些就好了……
Melania: Um, what if I enjoyed the photo shooting ...

梅兰妮：眉头有点紧张，笑容也有些僵硬……
Melania: Twitching eyebrows, stiff smile ...

艾西：和他很像。
Ms. Acey: You're like him.

梅兰妮：……
Melania: ...

梅兰妮：不，我会做得比他更好，艾西老师。
Melania: No. I'll be better, Ms. Acey.

梅兰妮：不只要有天马行空的想象力，还要制定更完善、更细致的方案，直到实现最终目标的那一刻，我都不会松懈。
Melania: Unpredictable imagination won't be enough. A better plan with more details is also required. I won't let go one single minute until I accomplish the ultimate goal.

梅兰妮：虽然我只是个半路出家的盗贼，还不擅长应对计划外的意外状况……
Melania: I became a thief late in life, so I'm not yet good at dealing with emergencies beyond the plan.

梅兰妮：但是，至少到目前为止，父亲留下的每一道题我都答对了。
Melania: But, at least so far, I've given the correct answer to every question Father left.

她从包里拿出了一本厚重的黑色册子，把它翻到最后一页，再郑重地把刚拍好的照片贴了上去。
She takes a thick black portfolio out of her handbag, turns to the last page, and solemnly sticks the photo she just took onto that page.

梅兰妮：这些都是父亲曾保护过的东西。
Melania: These are what Father used to protect.

梅兰妮：……
Melania: ...

艾西：你做得很好。
Ms. Acey: You've done a great job.

梅兰妮：谢谢你，艾西老师。
Melania: Thank you, Ms. Acey.

梅兰妮：还剩下最后一道题，也是最关键的那一道题……
Melania: There's only one question left, the key question …

梅兰妮：雷米特杯。
Melania: The Rimet Cup.

梅兰妮：如果我夺回了父亲的回忆与荣耀，便能弥补他的遗憾吗？
Melania: If I recapture Father's memories and glories, is it enough to make up for his regrets?

梅兰妮：父亲……会理解我吗？
Melania: Father ... Will he understand me?

艾西：或许你该去见见他。
Ms. Acey: Maybe you should meet him.

梅兰妮：……
Melania: ...

梅兰妮：好。
Melania: Okay.

梅兰妮：好久没来了。
Melania: It has been some time.

梅兰妮：公司破产后，我们连一块像样的墓地也支付不起。
Melania: When the company went bankrupt, we couldn't even afford a decent cemetery.

她在四周努力地寻找正确的道路，小径和墓碑们被一视同仁地遮蔽在半人高的杂草之后。
She endeavors to find the right way out, but all paths and tombstones are blocked by the weeds that are half a man's height.

梅兰妮：这样荒凉的地方，哪怕突然跳出几只野兽，我也丝毫不会感到意外。
Melania: I wouldn't be surprised if a few wild animals jump out of nowhere in this desolation.

艾西：……
Ms. Acey: ...

？？？：吱——！
???: Squeak!

艾西：判断能力优秀。
Ms. Acey: Excellent judgement.

梅兰妮：是魔精！
Melania: Critters!

梅兰妮：看来它们把这儿当成了自己的游乐场。
Melania: It seems they've made this place their playground.

对方虎视眈眈地盯着梅兰妮手里的“伦敦之心”，它们的眼神愈发明亮。
They stare at The Heart of London held by Melania with greed.

梅兰妮：抱歉，这可不是你们想要的亮闪闪的垃圾。
Melania: Sorry. This is not the shiny crap you want.

梅兰妮：它还有着更重要的使命呢。
Melania: It's on an important mission.

艾西：小心。
Ms. Acey: Be careful.

梅兰妮：呼……随身携带瞌睡跳跳豆是一个相当明智的决定。
Melania: Phew! It's a rather wise decision to carry around Zizz Popping Nuts.

四散而开的魔精们把周围的碎石和疯长的野草压得东倒西歪，梅兰妮也终于找到了那块仍算干净的墓碑。
The critters scatter, kick away the broken rocks, and step over the weeds. Melania finally finds the relatively tidy tombstone.

梅兰妮：父亲……
Melania: Father ...

梅兰妮：我为您带来了“伦敦之心”。
Melania: I brought The Heart of London for you.

梅兰妮：您还记得它吗？
Melania: Do you remember it?

梅兰妮：那个手忙脚乱的笨贼在鼻涕虫喷剂的惊喜中搞错了方向，最后带着这颗石头闯进了安保室……
Melania: That dim thief got sidetracked by the surprising slug spray and broke into the security room with it.

梅兰妮：在那以后他改过自新，再也没惦记过任何无人看管的东西。
Melania: After that, he turned over a new leaf, and things unattended have never come to his mind.

梅兰妮：但我这次对付的状况与那位可怜的小贼完全不同……
Melania: But what I'm going to face is completely different from a poor little thief.

梅兰妮：新的安保公司精心准备了机器人们。他们按部就班，守卫森严。但他们的防卫实在是缺乏创意，所有的行动都与那本《安保指南》上的内容如出一辙。
Melania: That new security company had carefully arranged robots. They took action by the book and were heavily guarded, but there's no creativity in their defense. All actions were exactly as they were in the Guidance on Security.

梅兰妮：甚至比不上一辆消防车带来的惊喜。
Melania: Not even as surprising as a fire engine.

梅兰妮：这应该称得上是小偷们最好的时代。
Melania: It should be the best of times for thieves.

她收起了那颗宝石，吹了吹上面的灰尘，把它塞进了信封里。
She collects that gem, blows away the dust on it, and puts it back into the envelope.

梅兰妮：抱歉，这个不能留给您，它得在明天傍晚准时地抵达威廉警长的办公室，这是相当重要的证据。
Melania: I'm sorry. I can't leave it to you. It needs to be sent to Sergeant William's office tomorrow evening on time. As evidence, it's quite important.

梅兰妮：但我带来了更有趣的消息。
Melania: But I have some interesting news.

梅兰妮拿出了那本皱巴巴的《今日足球》，把它小心翼翼地摊在墓碑前的空地上。
Melania takes out the worn-out World Soccer and gently puts it in front of the tombstone.

梅兰妮：现在的世道似乎变了很多。
Melania: The world seems to have changed a lot.

采访记者：我们请来了为即将抵达伦敦的雷米特杯提供安保的“新人类”公司负责人，艾弗森先生。
Reporter: Today we have Mr. Iverson from the New Humans Company, which provides security services for the soon arriving Rimet Cup.

采访记者：身为一名从业已久的负责人，他很愿意为我们介绍雷米特杯过去的故事。
Reporter: As an experienced head of the company, he would love to share the stories of the Rimet Cup with us.

采访记者：数年前的雷米特杯受到当时最知名的安保公司“拉米雷斯”的保护，却在一夜之间离奇消失。
Reporter: Years ago, the Rimet Cup was under the protection of the most well-known security company, Ramirez, but magically disappeared overnight.

采访记者：盛极一时的拉米雷斯在第二天便寻回了不翼而飞的雷米特杯。所有人都为他们喝彩，为虚惊一场的美好故事欢呼……
Reporter: It only took one day for Ramirez to retrieve the cup. This flourishing company received waves of compliments, and people were celebrating the story of a false alarm ...

艾弗森：所有人都觉得拉米雷斯守住了自己的名声，包括我们。
Iverson: Everyone, including us, thought Ramirez defended their reputation.

艾弗森：但很遗憾，经相关机构检测，被寻回的雷米特杯其实是一件伪造品。
Iverson: But unfortunately, evidence from the verification agency showed that the Rimet Cup they brought back was a counterfeit.

艾弗森：他们面临造假质疑，也让包括我们在内的所有同行失望。他们的想象力给社会带来了可怕的后果。
Iverson: They were confronted with the pressure of forgery suspect and the disappointment from all the peers ... The imagination of Ramirez caused catastrophic havoc to the whole society.

艾弗森：我们不得不摒弃拉米雷斯提倡的安保理论，重新回到更科学、更可靠的《安保指南》上来。
Iverson: We then have to put aside the security theory held by Ramirez and return to the more science-based and reliable Guidance on Security.

艾弗森：事实证明，缺乏规范的安保理论是一座空中楼阁，一场笑话。
Iverson: As it turns out, any security theories without regulations are castles in the air. Humph! It's a pure joke.

艾西：呵。
Ms. Acey: Heh.

梅兰妮：真是辛辣的点评。
Melania: Heh. What a sharp comment.

艾弗森：安保行动需要遵循既定的计划，需要精良的装备，需要稳重的安保员……唯独不需要可笑的想象力。
Iverson: Security measures require prebuilt plan, advanced equipment, and reliable personnel. Ridiculous imagination is the last thing.

艾弗森：而这些，你们都能从“新人类”的安保机器人中得到理想的答案。
Iverson: The ideal answer to all of these can be taken from the New Humans security robots.

梅兰妮：父亲，您当年在接受保护雷米特杯的使命时，可曾想过会有这样的一天？
Melania: Father, when you were assigned the mission to protect the Rimet Cup, did you ever imagine such a day would come?

梅兰妮：如果我们在接手时曾对“雷米特杯”进行过质检，如果我们曾调查过委托公司的交易记录，如果我们核对过巡场人员的名单……
Melania: If we had conducted a quality check on that "Rimet Cup" after receiving it, if we had investigated the transaction records of the client company, if we had verified the list of the patrol officers ...

梅兰妮：是否今日我便不会再对着沉默的石碑说话了？
Melania: Perhaps I would not be talking to your silent tomb today.

梅兰妮：……
Melania: ...

梅兰妮拍了拍墓碑，像是在安慰一位事业受挫的老友。
Melania pats the tombstone, just like comforting an old friend who is distressed because of his bumpy career.

梅兰妮：别泄气，父亲。
Melania: Cheer up, Father.

梅兰妮：我会证明这一切的——即使它会令我走上与您相反的道路。
Melania: I will prove it all, even if it'll lead me to a path different from yours.

梅兰妮：真正的保护将不只是防御，还包括进攻。
Melania: Real protection is more than defense. It's about attack.

梅兰妮：艾弗森先生需要得到一份更严厉的教训。
Melania: Mr. Iverson needs to learn a harsher lesson.

TRC-06 航线合流 / Confluence of the Routes

报童：重磅新闻！即将改变伦敦的大事件！
Newsboy: Extra! Extra! The event about to change London!

有人从他的身后冒了出来，轻轻拍了拍他的肩膀。
Someone suddenly appears from behind him and taps him gently on the shoulder.

星锑：嘿，汤米！好久不见。
Regulus: Hey, Tommy! Long time no see.

报童：星锑！你怎么来了？
Newsboy: Regulus?! Why are you here!

报童：我们明明前天才碰过面……你最近出现得也太频繁了。
Newsboy: I met you the day before. You show up so often these days.

报童：你甩开那些像苍蝇一样的探子了？
Newsboy: Did you get rid of those scouts?

星锑：哼哼～他们现在可没空管我。
Regulus: Ha! They don't have time for me right now.

APPLe：昨天，星锑船长遇到了一位怪人。
APPLe: Yesterday, Captain Regulus encountered a weirdo.

星锑：没错，邋遢小子声称在报纸上给我们留下了遗言。
Regulus: Right. Ragged lad claimed to have left us his last words in the newspaper.

APPLe：船长，我想他昨天说的是“惊喜留言”。
APPLe: Captain, I'm afraid what he said was "surprising note."

星锑：噢——没关系，这不重要！汤米，今天的头版新闻是什么？
Regulus: Oh, never mind. It doesn't matter! Tommy, what's on the front page today?

报童：给你，自己看看吧～
Newsboy: Here, see for yourself!

他把一份早已翻皱的报纸塞给了星锑。
He gives Regulus the crumpled newspaper that has been looked over by many people.

星锑：“雷米特杯巡展于今日正式开启……足球迷们的狂欢盛会！”
Regulus: "The Rimet Cup Exhibition starts today. Carnival for Fans!"

APPLe先生暂时中止了他的翻译器新研究，飘到了星锑的旁边。
Mr. APPLe suspends his new research on the translator and drifts to Regulus.

星锑：“新人类公司宣布接手雷米特杯的展览，他们将启用更多的安保机器人以替代人类工作……”
Regulus: "New Humans has announced to undertake the Rimet Cup Exhibition. More security robots will be put into use to replace human jobs ..."

星锑：“如无意外，此次巡展之后，警局将全面引入此套安防系统，伦敦将迎来史无前例的平静局面。”
Regulus: "If all goes well, the security system will be introduced to the police after the exhibition. London will embrace real peace."

星锑：“……远比人类可靠，一丝不苟的执行者，全方位的城市安全风景线。”
Regulus: "Far more reliable than humans, meticulous enforcers, and all-round urban security landscape."

APPLe：伦敦似乎打算实行更严格的监管，他们计划启用安保机器人。
APPLe: It seems London will tighten the regulations. The government plans to launch security robots.

星锑：那些不近人情的铁皮怪物？
Regulus: Stubborn tin monsters?!

APPLe：是的，从报纸上的介绍来看，安保机器人们拥有屏蔽信号，影响局部空间磁场的功能。
APPLe: Yes. According to the description on newspapers, those robots can block out mobile signals and change the regional magnetic field.

APPLe：这恐怕会影响我们广播频道的信号收发功能。
APPLe: I'm afraid our broadcast will be affected.

星锑：那我们还能“借用”别人的电台频段吗？
Regulus: Can we still "borrow" others' radio waves?

APPLe：显然不能……
APPLe: Huuhh! Of course, we can't.

星锑捏紧了手里的报纸。
Regulus crumples the newspaper in her hand.

星锑：可恶！
Regulus: Ugh! Crap!

星锑：这算是什么惊喜留言！如果机器人占领了伦敦，我的海盗公演计划可就泡汤了！
Regulus: What kind of surprising note is this! If the robots take over London, my plans for a pirate's gig will go down the drain!

星锑：“新人类公司”……很好，我明白了，邋遢小子是机器人们的同伙，甚至有可能是一个企图控制伦敦的坏蛋头子！
Regulus: New Humans ... Oh, I get it. Ragged lad is part of the robots team, or maybe even a badass boss trying to take control of London!

星锑：怪不得他看上去和警察们那么不对付，啧啧。
Regulus: No wonder he seems to have a problem with the cops. Ugh!

报童：喔～听上去是个大新闻。
Newsboy: Blimey! This one is huge!

报童：你打算把一手消息提供给报社吗？他们肯定很感兴趣。
Newsboy: Are you going to provide your first hand to the press? They must be interested.

星锑：算了，毕竟他曾经救过我们……朋友要做的是劝说他放弃这个邪恶的计划。
Regulus: Never mind. He saved us once, after all. A friend will persuade him to abandon this evil plan.

星锑：星锑船长从不是见利忘义的小人！
Regulus: Captain Regulus will never forget friendship for profit!

报童：真遗憾，报社的酬劳相当可观，说不准能给你的爱车配上最新的装备。
Newsboy: Damn shame. That's a heap of dosh. You could even get your cycle some fancy equipment.

星锑：……
Regulus: ...

星锑：你先告诉我，他们给多少？
Regulus: Tell me first. How much do they pay?

APPLe：船长……
APPLe: Captain.

星锑：咳——我，我只是问问！开个玩笑而已！
Regulus: Ahem! I-I was just curious! Just kidding!

星锑把手里那张皱巴巴的报纸塞到了汤米的手里。
Regulus gives the crumpled newspaper back to Tommy.

星锑：我现在得去做一件更重要的事。
Regulus: I have to go and do something more important now.

星锑：回头见，汤米～
Regulus: Cheers, Tommy.

报童：拜！要是改变了主意，随时可以回来找我！
Newsboy: Bye! I'm here if you change your mind!

崭新的报纸被挖掘艺术揉成一团，而后又忽地展开。
The brand new newspaper is crumpled into a ball by Diggers and is then suddenly unfolded.

挖掘艺术：《快讯！双子星8号宇航员手动完成人类首次太空对接》
Diggers: "Breaking! Gemini 8 Conducted First Manual Docking in Space."

挖掘艺术：《第五届长毛绒绒运动会即将开始 有意者请及时携宠物报名》
Diggers: "Fifth Fluffy Sports Meeting is coming. Interested candidates, please sign up with your pet."

……

他把手上的报纸翻来覆去地看了几遍。
He flips the newspaper over and over.

感谢上帝，他终于在两版新闻的夹缝中找到了自己希望看到的内容。
Thank God. He finally finds what he's hoping to see in the gap between the two pages of news.

挖掘艺术：“警方通告，某男子使用特殊手段控制洒水车，恶意破坏交通秩序，获拘留三日处理。”
Diggers: "Police Notice: A man controlled a watering car with special means and deliberately violated public transit. He will be detained for three days as a punishment."

挖掘艺术：怎么会这样？！
Diggers: How come?!

挖掘艺术：派对主题、演讲重点、主办人、未来的艺术方向……
Diggers: Party theme, the key points of my speech, host, future trend of art ...

挖掘艺术：一句都没提及！
Diggers: None are mentioned!

挖掘艺术：啊……新世界的星辰于昨日升起，却无法让更多人得知。
Diggers: Hahh! A brand-new world was born yesterday, but most people don't have a chance to celebrate.

挖掘艺术：理想世界的上空弥漫着挥之不去的阴霾，这是伦敦的悲哀，世界的悲哀。
Diggers: Gloomy clouds haunt the sky of my Utopia. Shame on London! Shame on the world!

挖掘艺术：我们需要改变！彻底的改变！
Diggers: We need to change! Radical change!

挖掘艺术愤慨地敲击胸口，将手中的报纸高高举起。他来回踱步，如同胸怀大志的诗人一般。
Diggers pounds his chest with indignation and lifts the newspaper high. He paces back and forth, just like an ambitious poet.

挖掘艺术：我们不当被娱乐所消解，艺术之锤终将叩响昏聩的警钟——！
Diggers: We won't be corrupted by entertainment. The bell of art will break the shackles of the stubbornness.

挖掘艺术：伦敦受困于漫长的黑夜，我们需要的绝不只是乏味的星辰，而是更刺眼的太阳。
Diggers: London has been trapped in a long and dreadful night. What it needs is the sun, not the dull stars.

在转了二十七圈半之后，他终于停了下来。
After turning around twenty-seven times and a half, he finally stops.

挖掘艺术：荒凉的街头根本无法吸引到更多人的目光。
Diggers: The deserted street won't attract many people.

挖掘艺术：人们早已习惯了盲从，他们只看得见最受注目的东西！
Diggers: They have been used to following the crowd. They can only spot the noticeable objects!

挖掘艺术：我必须举办一场盛大的，让更多人都无法忽视的，足以推翻主流的艺术派对。
Diggers: We must throw a grand party of art, to topple the mainstream, to blow more people's minds!

挖掘艺术：它的地点当然不应该只在街头……
Diggers: And it shouldn't be contained only to streets ...

挖掘艺术：有了！有了！万众瞩目的雷米特杯展厅，将会是史无前例的、让所有人疯狂的完美舞台！
Diggers: I get it! I get it! The eye-catching exhibition hall of the Rimet Cup will become the unprecedented, the craziest, and the perfect stage!

挖掘艺术兴奋地离开了，他手上的报纸被洒向空中，仿佛是一份好戏将至的宣告。
Diggers leaves with excitement. The newspaper is tossed into the air, signaling the start of a good show.

温迪：汪……汪汪！
Wendy: Woof! Woof!

温迪：汪——！
Wendy: Woof woof!

训练有素的小狗绝不会放过任何一个接下被抛飞的玩具球的机会。
A well-trained pup will never miss a single chance to catch a flying ball.

当然，飘在空中的报纸也算。
Of course, the newspaper in the air is included.

TRC-07 正中红心 / Hit the Bullseye

温迪：汪、汪汪！
Wendy: Woof woof!

小斗牛犬咬着报纸在主人面前转了一圈又一圈，像是在炫耀自己的战利品。
The little bulldog holds the newspaper in his mouth and turns round and round in front of his master, as if showing off his trophy.

查尔顿：温迪！我说过很多次，不许捡路上的垃圾！
Charlton: Wendy! I've told you so many times. No picking up litter on the road!

温迪：……
Wendy: ...

查尔顿：你这次带回来了什么……？张嘴，啊！
Charlton: What have you brought back this time? Open your mouth, ahhhhhhhh!

查尔顿先生把报纸拿在手上翻来覆去地看了几遍。
Charlton gets the newspaper and flips it over and over.

查尔顿：幸好上面没沾着什么脏东西。
Charlton: Luckily, there's nothing dirty on it.

温迪：吽……獒！獒！
Wendy: Woo ... Woof!

查尔顿：哦，天啊，昨天的事情把我的脑子都搞晕了，差点儿忘了这么重要的事儿。
Charlton: Oh, gosh! It really messed with my head yesterday. I almost forgot something very important.

皮克勒斯：呜呜……呜。<哪怕你重复一百遍，他也不会明白这些是你的训练成果。>
Pickles: Woof woof, woof. <He cannot understand that it comes from your hard training, no matter how many times you tell him.>

温迪：獒！
Wendy: Woof?

皮克勒斯：汪、汪汪。<不，我并没有对他使用靛蓝系感知术。但你要明白……>
Pickles: Woof woof woof. <No, I didn't use my Indigo telepathic skill on him. But you need to know that ...>

皮克勒斯：汪汪。<他永远无法真正的理解我们，温迪。>
Pickles: Woof woof. <... He can never truly understand us, Wendy.>

查尔顿：哇哦——！
Charlton: Whoa!

皮克勒斯：狺。狺狺……<他的兴奋让我感到不安。希望不要再出现什么临时活动来打乱阅读计划……>
Pickles: Woof woof woof … <His being so thrilled perturbs me. Hopefully, there will be no unexpected events to upset my reading plan ...>

皮克勒斯：汪汪，汪汪。<更何况，关于《存在与时间》的笔记，我也没能完稿。>
Pickles: Woof woof. <Especially when I haven't finished my note of Sein und Zeit ...>

但坏事似乎源源不断，没有尽头。
However, bad luck will never end.

查尔顿：孩子们，快看看这个！
Charlton: Kids, look!

查尔顿：看看我们的小温迪究竟带回了什么好消息——雷米特杯展览今日开始！
Charlton: Look what good news our little Wendy has brought home! The Rimet Cup Exhibition starts today!

查尔顿：我现在有了一个更棒的主意！
Charlton: Now I have a better idea!

查尔顿：今天下午，我们去参观雷米特杯的展览，怎么样？
Charlton: How about visiting the Rimet Cup Exhibition this afternoon?

温迪：汪呜？！汪——！
Wendy: Woof? Woof!

皮克勒斯：狺狺。<平静只是一种奢望。>
Pickles: Woof, woof. <Peace, the never-possible peace.>

查尔顿：我听说巡展中还会有抽奖活动，最幸运的家伙能得到后续世界杯正赛的全程门票！
Charlton: I heard that they would be doing a lottery in the exhibition. The luckiest guy gets full tickets to all the World Cup rounds!

查尔顿：我们的小皮克勒斯一定能成为那只幸运小狗，就像之前的每一次抽奖那样！
Charlton: Our little Pickles is definitely the lucky pup, just like every other draw before!

皮克勒斯：狺……狺狺。<唉……或许当初就不应该为了那些无聊的抽奖而滥用感知的力量。>
Pickles: Woof woof … <*sighs* Perhaps I shouldn't have used my perception for those meaningless lotteries ...>

皮克勒斯：狺狺……？<难道说，我也曾经想做一只讨人喜欢的小狗吗？>
Pickles: Woof woof … <Or, was I too, once a puppy who wanted to win the favour of human beings ...?>

查尔顿：你们一点也不兴奋吗？
Charlton: Are you not excited?

查尔顿：在那儿说不准能得到绝版的签名足球……这样我们的抛球游戏又能用上新玩具了！
Charlton: There's a chance to get an out-of-print signed football there, then we'll have a new toy for our ball game!

温迪：汪汪——！
Wendy: Woof woof!

听到这句话后，闷闷不乐的小斗牛犬如同一位成熟的运动员般，迅速调整了状态，并且蹭上了查尔顿的腿。
Upon hearing this, the little bulldog in low spirits quickly adjusts like a mature athlete and rubs up against Charlton.

查尔顿：哈哈！温迪，冷静点，我们还得进行民主投票环节。
Charlton: Heh heh heh! Calm down, Wendy. We will have a democratic voting session.

皮克勒斯：汪……呜。<温迪……我对你的叛变感到毫不意外。>
Pickles: Woof ... woof. <Wendy ... Why am I not surprised by your betrayal at all?>

查尔顿：现在，有人不愿意去参观雷米特杯吗？请举起你的手。
Charlton: Now, does anyone not want to visit the Rimet Cup? Raise your paw, please.

小斗牛犬在一旁兴奋地打滚，皮克勒斯缓慢且坚定地抬起了他的爪子。
The little bulldog rolls about with excitement, while Pickles slowly and firmly lifts his paw.

查尔顿：好的，全票通过！
Charlton: All right. It's unanimous!

查尔顿蹲了下来，快速地和皮克勒斯击了击掌。
Charlton crouches down and gives Pickles a quick high five.

皮克勒斯：……
Pickles: ...

皮克勒斯：汪汪。汪汪汪。<苹果先生的说法是对的，或许在独自流浪之后，我才能寻得更合适的同伴。>
Pickles: Woof woof. <Mr. Apple was right. I guess my soulmate will not show itself until my wandering starts.>

雷米特杯的展厅里挤满了游客。
The exhibition hall of the Rimet Cup is alive with visitors.

儿童游客：妈妈，你看！
Young Visitor: Mum, look!

儿童游客：那位叔叔的手在发出彩色的光！
Young Visitor: That man, his hand is glowing with colourful light!

游客：你答应过我出来绝对不会吵吵闹闹的，宝贝，也绝对不会对着奇怪的东西大呼小叫。
Visitor: Dear, you promised me you won't make a scene when we're outside and no yelling at strange things.

儿童游客：好吧……妈妈。
Young Visitor: Alright, Mum.

挖掘艺术混在熙熙攘攘的人群中，他的手心里藏着一瓶气味浓郁的彩色液体。
Diggers blends in with the bustling crowds. A bottle of coloured liquid with a strong smell is hidden in his hand.

挖掘艺术：呼……顺利通过安检。
Diggers: Phew! Security screening passed.

挖掘艺术：新时代的勇士与他拿手的泡泡装置成功抵达了决战之地。
Diggers: The warrior of the new era successfully arrives at the final battlefield with his magnificent bubble device.

挖掘艺术：他们等待着一场强风。
Diggers: They are waiting for a gale.

挖掘艺术：这将会是历史性的转折时刻！
Diggers: This is going to be the critical transition of our time!

展厅的天窗被密不透光的黑色幕布完全遮蔽，取而代之的是更加明亮的人造日光灯。
The skylight of the exhibition hall is completely covered by black curtains. Instead of daylight, the brighter fluorescent lamps are used.

墙壁上的窗户也被封锁得严严实实，只有几个通风口有微弱的气流流出。
The windows on the wall are also sealed off, with only a few vents letting the air in.

挖掘艺术在展厅里逛了几圈，终于接受了安保公司已经对现场进行相当细腻安排的这一事实。
Diggers wanders around the hall and finally accepts the depressing fact that the security company has arranged everything fairly well.

挖掘艺术：该死的，怎么会有这种事情？！外面的强风根本吹不进来！
Diggers: Bollocks! What is that? The gale outside can't get in!

挖掘艺术：缺乏空气流动的世界就像一潭死水，根本无法吹起新世界的肥皂泡。
Diggers: A world without airflow is like a pond of dead water. The soap bubbles of a new world can't blow in.

他四处环顾，改变了主意。
He looks around and changes his mind.

挖掘艺术：真正的艺术家绝对不会缺乏抗争的勇气与决心。
Diggers: But, a real artist never loses the guts and grit.

挖掘艺术：如果一切顺利，我也能靠自己在半小时里吹出足够让所有人沉醉梦境的缤纷海洋！
Diggers: If everything goes on smoothly, I can blow enough soap bubbles to create an ocean of reveries within half an hour.

挖掘艺术：只要我的行动更加隐蔽点……
Diggers: I just need to cover myself ...

挖掘艺术把泡泡装置随手搁在了距离他最近的通风口旁，里面吹出的微弱气流甚至不能让泡泡装置的风扇转上半圈。
Diggers casually puts the bubble device next to the nearest vent. The weak airflow can't even get the fan of the device to turn halfway around.

他像是临终的战士，为未来的勇者们留下希望的种子，然后便注视着正在不远处巡逻的安保机器人，深深地吸了一口气。
Like a dying warrior leaving seeds of hope for the brave in the future, he gazes at the security robots that are patrolling over there and takes a deep breath.

三。
Three.

二。
Two.

一。
One.

挖掘艺术：噗——！
Diggers: Puff!

他勇敢地朝着人群吹出了一个又一个的彩虹肥皂泡。
He fearlessly blows one rainbow soap bubble after another towards the crowd.

路人：你们快看……
Passerby: Hey, look!

路人：怎么会有人在室内吹泡泡啊？
Passerby: How would someone blow bubbles indoors?

路人：咳咳……好奇怪的味道。
Passerby: *coughs* What a funny smell!

毫无疑问，安保机器人们迅速注意到了这边的骚动。
Undoubtedly, the security robots have noticed the commotion here.

它们朝着挖掘艺术的位置步步紧逼。
They move towards Diggers immediately.

挖掘艺术：这才过去了一分钟！
Diggers: Oh, bollocks! I am exposed in just a minute?

挖掘艺术：来不及了……这些泡泡根本不够……
Diggers: Ahh, I need to hurry up. These bubbles are far from enough.

挖掘艺术：噗——！噗噗——！
Diggers: Puff! Puff puff!

挖掘艺术：噗，咳咳咳……
Diggers: Pufffff … *coughs*

安保机器人们涌了上来。
The security robots are all here.

挖掘艺术：喂、喂、喂——！
Diggers: Hey, hey, hey!

挖掘艺术：说真的，你们该给一位艺术家符合他身份的尊重与待遇。
Diggers: Seriously, you should respect and treat an artist fairly.

这是一场注定失败的战役。
This is a battle doomed to fail.

但无畏的尝试者值得更有价值的嘉奖。
However, the one who makes an intrepid attempt deserves a more valuable reward.

艾弗森：又是你，可恶的街头混混。
Iverson: Ugh! There you are again, annoying hooligan.

艾弗森：我真是搞不懂你们的想法。神秘学家都是如此的愚蠢和不自量力吗？
Iverson: I don't think I can understand what you're thinking. Are arcanists all so stupid that you always overestimate yourselves?

挖掘艺术：我并没有倒下，艾弗森先生。
Diggers: I am not defeated, Mr. Iverson.

挖掘艺术：艺术的火种是无法熄灭的，就像我们对理想的永恒追求。
Diggers: The fire of art will never be extinguished, just like our craving for Utopia never ceases.

艾弗森：唠叨的小子。
Iverson: Annoying blabber.

门被从外面反锁了起来。
The door is locked from the outside.

艾弗森：虽然不知道你想要搞些什么蠢事，但毫无疑问，你又失败了。
Iverson: Though I don't know what stupid idea is lingering in your brain, obviously, you just failed again.

挖掘艺术：追逐理想并非蠢事，先生。
Diggers: Utopia is not stupid, sir.

挖掘艺术：没有坚定的追求，生命只会陷入糜烂的物质娱乐当中！
Diggers: Without a goal, life would be stuck in the mess of corrupting materials and entertainment!

挖掘艺术：我深信……在不久的将来，人们将勇于为真正的理想发声，为和平与爱歌唱！
Diggers: I'm sure, soon enough, people will have the courage to speak up and sing for peace and love!

艾弗森：我见过许多像你这样虚无缥缈的年轻人。
Iverson: I've met a lot of young people like you who chase unrealistic fantasies.

艾弗森：你们幼稚得令人发笑。
Iverson: Humph! Ignorant and hilarious.

短暂的躁动之后，对方的脚步声渐渐远去。
After a brief uproar, Iverson's footsteps fade away.

昏暗的房间里陷入了长久的寂静。
A long silence falls upon the dark room.

连通风口吞吐灰尘的排气声也清晰可闻。
Even the exhaust noise can be clearly heard.

挖掘艺术：很好，他走远了。
Diggers: Great! He walked away.

他抬起头，看着褐色的灰尘在排气口处飞舞。
He raises his head, looking at the dust floating around the exhaust vent.

挖掘艺术：我已经进入到雷米特杯的展厅里，不能在这时候功亏一篑。
Diggers: I've entered the exhibition hall of the Rimet Cup. I can't make any mistakes starting now.

挖掘艺术：攀爬通风管道这种行径……只是为了唤醒人们叛逆精神而作出的一点小小的牺牲！
Diggers: Climbing through ventilation ducts is just a slight sacrifice in order to awaken the rebellious spirit of everyone.

他关掉了附近的通风系统，移开了排气口上的板砖。
He shuts down the ventilation system nearby and removes the slate from the exhaust vent.

挖掘艺术：咳咳……这看上去也太脏了！
Diggers: *coughs* This doesn't look clean at all!

挖掘艺术：无论如何，至少比在这该死的牢笼里浪费时间要强得多。
Diggers: Anyway, at least it's much better than wasting my time in the cage.

挖掘艺术纵身一跃，堪堪够着了那个狭小的入口。
Diggers takes a long leap and manages to reach the narrow entrance.

挖掘艺术：漆黑一片……
Diggers: I can barely see.

他在模糊中艰难地向前移动，没注意到有东西正从口袋中滑落。
He moves forward with difficulty in the dark, but he doesn't notice that something slips out of his pocket.

挖掘艺术：噢——我的空想肥皂水！
Diggers: Oh, my Revery Bubble Solution!

挖掘艺术：该死，它们全弄到我眼睛里了……咳咳……好痒啊……
Diggers: Shoot! It-It's in my eyes. *coughs* Oh, it's itchy.

挖掘艺术：塔利亚保佑，希望你们倒霉的副作用来得慢一些……
Diggers: *coughs* Bless me, Talia. Hope the efficacy takes effect a bit slower.

TRC-08 非暴力合作 / Non-violent Cooperation

有人如收获一张红牌般迅速离场，也有人选择了更难以被察觉的方法。
Someone leaves immediately like a player given the red card, while the other chooses a way that's more imperceptible.

在某个无人问津的角落，梅兰妮轻轻合上了电闸箱的门，她的手上拿着一根刚被换下的保险丝。
In a corner where nobody cares, Melania closes the door to the electric switch box gently. In her hand is a fuse that has just been replaced.

梅兰妮：里面的保险丝都是最近换上的……
Melania: All the fuses were changed recently.

梅兰妮：我猜，这里的安保负责人应该是个相当难缠的家伙。
Melania: I'm guessing the head of security here is a pretty tough nut to crack.

梅兰妮：但很遗憾，只对《安保指南》重视，很可能招致其他方面的懈怠。
Melania: But unfortunately, too much attention to the Guidance on Security will probably lead to carelessness in other areas.

梅兰妮：调走了所有的人类安保员，仅依赖机器人的巡逻防范……最终导致的结果就是，每隔4小时13分2秒便会出现一次30秒的监控室盲区。
Melania: Transferring all the human security staff and relying solely on the patrol and precaution of robots ... The consequence is a 30-second blind spot in the monitored areas every 4 hours 13 minutes and 2 seconds.

艾西：所以你才能在这里换保险丝。
Ms. Acey: That gives you the chance to change the fuse here.

梅兰妮：没错，艾西老师！
Melania: That's right, Ms. Acey!

梅兰妮：我会亲自证明《安保指南》的无效性，并在最关键的时刻恰到好处地登场！
Melania: I will prove the ineffectiveness of the Guidance on Security in person and start the show at just the right moment!

梅兰妮：接下来，我们的下一个计划是……
Melania: Then, our next plan is ...

梅兰妮：和所有的安保机器人们碰头。
Melania: ... to meet up with all the security robots.

她最后确认了一遍电闸箱里的保险丝，掩上了监控室的门。
She checks the fuses in the electric switch box again, then closes the door of the monitor room carefully.

宽阔的大厅中间，能看到一个不起眼的女孩在人群中游荡。
In the spacious exhibition hall, a common girl is wandering through the crowd.

她一次次“意外”地撞上展厅的各个角落的安保机器人，像个冒失的游客。
She "accidentally" bumps into the security robots again and again, like a careless visitor.

安保机器人：检测到可疑人员，位置……
Security Robot: Suspicious invader detected. Locating ...

梅兰妮：最后一位……
Melania: Phew! The last one ...

梅兰妮：嗯？你看上去似乎比其他的机器人要聪明一些……
Melania: Um? You seem a bit smarter than the other robots.

安保机器人：无法确定位置，启用二级方案，图钉胶水枪。
Security Robot: Locating failed. Initiate Programme II, Pushpin Glue Gun.

梅兰妮：糟糕！
Melania: Oops!

梅兰妮：不能引发骚乱，得速战速决。小心它的探测仪！
Melania: No noise. I have to be quick. Watch out for its detectors!

梅兰妮又一次灵巧地躲过安保机器人的探测仪，等在它行进的路线上。
Once again, Melania dodges the detectors of the security robot and waits on its path.

梅兰妮：物物相易——！
Melania: Eroj Exchange!

藏在安保机器人炮筒里的子弹们，在一阵阵光晕中，毫无征兆地出现在艾西老师的肚子里。
In a burst of light, the bullets hidden in the barrels of the security robot suddenly appear in Ms. Acey's stomach.

作为公平交换，它们的炮筒得到了梅兰妮的特制弹药。
As a fair exchange, the bullets tailored by Melania are now in their barrels.

安保机器人：……？
Security Robot: ...?

艾西：危险。
Ms. Acey: Look out.

张牙舞爪的手提包吐出了一颗原本属于机器人的钢芯弹。她的语气严肃，似乎对眼前的机器人充满警惕。
The handbag spits out a steel core ammo that originally belonged to the robot. Her tone is serious. It seems she is wary of the robot in front of her.

梅兰妮：啧啧……
Melania: Tut-tut!

梅兰妮：居然不是催泪弹，也不是电极虫喷剂……这些机器人，用的竟是真正的军用弹药。
Melania: It's not tear gas or electrode bug spray. These robots are actually using real military ammunition.

梅兰妮：这违反了一直以来的《安保指南》。
Melania: This violates the Guidance on Security that has been strictly followed all the time.

梅兰妮：难道艾弗森先生其实是个刚入行的新手？
Melania: Is Mr. Iverson actually new at security?

梅兰妮：呵呵，不，当然不可能。唯一有可能的是，他是个不择手段的疯子……
Melania: Heh heh, no, no way. The only possible reason is that he's unscrupulous.

艾西：为了“安全宣言”。
Ms. Acey: For his “security announcement.”

梅兰妮：哼。我记得他们的说法，“新人类公司的承诺，绝对安全的雷米特杯”。
Melania: Humph. I know their slogan, "New Humans' Promise: The Rimet Cup will be absolutely secure."

梅兰妮：所有人都乐于接受这套夸大其词的说法……
Melania: Everyone's happy to accept the hyperbole ...

梅兰妮：并且信以为真。
Melania: ... and believes it to be true.

艾西：呵呵。
Ms. Acey: Heh.

梅兰妮看了看墙上挂着的时钟，距离闭馆还有1小时15分。
Melania looks at the clock on the wall. It's 1 hour and 15 minutes to closing.

梅兰妮：我们得抓紧时间了。
Melania: We need to hurry.

通常而言，洗手间里有着最宽阔的通风口。
The widest vent is usually located in the restroom.

它们联结各个房间的天花板，是另一种被藏起来的道路。
They are connected to the ceilings of other rooms, often regarded as hidden roads.

梅兰妮在通风管道里努力地搬动身子，尽力避免蹭到周围积满的灰尘与碎屑。
Melania struggles to move in the ventilating ducts, trying her best to avoid the dust and debris around her.

梅兰妮：左转45°，再挪动13步……
Melania: Turn 45 degrees left and move 13 steps farther …

梅兰妮：通风系统的核心装置位于展厅左侧的第三个房间内部。
Melania: The core device of the ventilation system is located in the third room, on the left side of the exhibition hall.

梅兰妮：那里缺乏必要的居住条件与照明设备……
Melania: There's no necessary living conditions and lighting.

梅兰妮：正常情况下都不会有人出现……
Melania: Normally, no one will be there.

梅兰妮：我有充足的时间调整风向。
Melania: I will have plenty of time to adjust the airflow.

通风管道里的世界进入了长久的寂静。
The world inside the ventilation ducts falls silent.

梅兰妮能清晰地听到自己刻意压低的爬行声。
Melania can clearly hear the sound of crawling that she deliberately keeps down.

以及越靠近终点就越发清晰的……
And the closer to the target, the stronger ...

由远及近的刺鼻气味。
... the pungent odor from far to near.

艾西：嗯？
Ms. Acey: Hmm?

梅兰妮：奇怪的气味……像是发酵过度的酸溜溜火舌酒。
Melania: It smells strange ... like the sour flame wine that's over fermented.

“砰——”
BANG!

通风口的转角突兀地出现了一张涂满彩色泡泡水的脸。
A face coated in colourful bubble water appears abruptly around the corner of the vent.

梅兰妮：——！
Melania: Haahh!!

挖掘艺术：你果然还是来了！
Diggers: There you are!

梅兰妮：你是……？
Melania: You are ...

梅兰妮：怎么回事，这里居然会有埋伏！
Melania: What's going on? There's actually an ambush here!

挖掘艺术：呜呜……呕……浑身疼痛，但是，这里是空想……还是天堂……？
Diggers: Boohoo! *puking* It hurts all over, but is this my revery? Or, really, heaven?

挖掘艺术：看不清楚……难道、这就是微妙的危机感与浑浊空气一同孕育的艺术！
Diggers: I can't tell. Could it be a form of art created by the subtle sense of danger I'm feeling right now and the dirty air?!

挖掘艺术：来吧，来吧，你就是我的缪斯女神——！
Diggers: Come to me. Come to me! You are my Muse!

梅兰妮：喂，放开我，放开！
Melania: Ugh, oh! Hey, let me go! Let go!

梅兰妮：可恶，我这是撞上了被开除而发疯的人类安保员吗？
Melania: Damn! Did I just bump into a human security staff who got fired and went crazy?

梅兰妮：好吧……就把你当成一道意料之外的附加考题吧！
Melania: Alright. I'll just think of it as an unexpected additional exam question.

梅兰妮：来尝尝这个吧！父亲曾教过我的爬行擒拿术！
Melania: Try this! The ground grappling that Father used to teach me!

挖掘艺术：哇啊！灵感，我的灵感……稍纵即逝……
Diggers: Whoa! Inspiration. My inspiration never lasts long ...

挖掘艺术：嘶——我从未在想象中经历过如此真实的……疼痛。
Diggers: Hiss, ahh! I've never experienced such vivid pain from the revery.

梅兰妮：嗯？居然还在坚持？再来一次！
Melania: Hm? Still holding on?! One more time!

挖掘艺术：哇啊——！
Diggers: Oh!

梅兰妮：呼……
Melania: Whew!

短暂的战争以挖掘艺术的惨败而迅速告一段落。
The war swiftly ends with Diggers's crushing defeat.

梅兰妮：终于解决了。
Melania: Whew! Finally, it's all settled.

挖掘艺术：这，这不是空想……这是恐怖袭击！
Diggers: This ... this is not revery. This is a terrorist attack!

挖掘艺术：卑……卑劣的行径，可耻的暴力行为……
Diggers: Cunning ... cunning action, shameful violence!

挖掘艺术：艾弗森，你竟然派人在这里埋伏，你这个囚禁狂、战争分子，我要揭穿你的真面目！
Diggers: Iverson, you set an ambush here? You crazy addict of imprisonment and war! I must blow your cover!

梅兰妮：嗯？
Melania: Hmm?

梅兰妮：你不是他的同伙？
Melania: Are you not one of them?!

挖掘艺术：当然不是！
Diggers: Of course not!

梅兰妮：咳，抱歉……
Melania: Ahem. Sorry …

挖掘艺术：你，你别过来！
Diggers: Stay ... stay away from me!

挖掘艺术：你一定是艾弗森召来的恶魔！你比那些铁皮机器人要可怕得多！
Diggers: You must be the demon that Iverson summoned! You are more horrific than those robots!

梅兰妮：如果我说，这一切都是误会……你，能理解吗？
Melania: If I say it's all a misunderstanding, could ... would you understand?

挖掘艺术：你认为呢？
Diggers: Huuhh! What do you think?

艾西：略显鲁莽。
Ms. Acey: A little reckless.

梅兰妮：艾西老师……我承认，我太紧张了……
Melania: Ms. Acey, I know, I'm too nervous ...

梅兰妮：从任何一方面来看，他都不具备半点作为安保员的可能性。
Melania: In no way is there any possibility for him to be a security staff.

挖掘艺术：这听上去像是一种嘲笑……
Diggers: It sounds like a joke.

挖掘艺术：我必须声明，暴力是艺术的反义词，我们应该选择更合适的抗争手段。
Diggers: I must claim that violence is the antonym of art. We should resort to a more sensible means to fight.

挖掘艺术：这正是我们反对滥用武力的艾弗森们的理由！
Diggers: This is the reason for us to oppose those Iversons who abuse the use of force!

梅兰妮：你说得对。
Melania: Couldn't agree more.

梅兰妮：我也不倾向滥用暴力，这也是我们家与艾弗森公司最大的区别。
Melania: I don't intend to abuse the use of force, either. It's the biggest difference between Iverson's company and ours.

挖掘艺术：真的吗？……我脖子上的痛觉尚未消失。
Diggers: Really? I still feel pain in my neck.

梅兰妮：这，这只是个意外……唉，作为补偿，我会把你救出去的。
Melania: It's … it's just an accident. Huuhh! As compensation, I will get you out.

挖掘艺术：好，我接受你的道歉。
Diggers: Fine. Apology accepted.

挖掘艺术：我们什么时候出发？
Diggers: When will we start off?

梅兰妮：五分钟后。
Melania: In five minutes.

梅兰妮：我得先换掉这个房间的终端阀门，调整管道内部的导流片位置，改变螺旋扇的气流方向。
Melania: I have to change the terminal valve in the room first. Adjust the position of the deflector in the duct and change the airflow from the spiral fan.

梅兰妮：源源不断的磁性黏胶会被螺旋扇吹出通风管道，附着在那些机器人的身上。
Melania: Abundant magnetic glue will be blown out of the ventilation ducts by the spiral fan and adhere to the robots.

梅兰妮：呵呵，细碎的黏胶会让它们，完全瘫痪。
Melania: Heh heh. The fine glue will paralyse them completely.

梅兰妮：在那之后，你就能大摇大摆地离开了。
Melania: After that, you could just waltz away.

挖掘艺术：听上去是个大工程……需要我做些什么吗？
Diggers: Sounds like a big project. Do you need my help?

梅兰妮：当然。
Melania: Absolutely.

梅兰妮：你得尽可能地远离身后的调节阀。
Melania: Stay as far away as possible from the regulator valve behind you.

挖掘艺术：呃……
Diggers: Ugh ...

TRC-09 天才调音师 / The Genius DJ

星锑的小船能够无拘无束地开往任何地方。
Regulus's ship can sail everywhere she wants.

有防盗网的地方除外。
Except where there is a security fence.

APPLe：船长，我们的目的地不应该是雷米特杯的展厅吗？
APPLe: Captain, isn't our destination supposed to be the exhibition hall of the Rimet Cup?

星锑：当然。
Regulus: Of course!

APPLe：但展厅正门应该在我们刚才经过的那个路口……这里看上去像是早已荒废的后门。
APPLe: I think we just missed the front gate at the junction we passed just now. Where we are now looks like a deserted back door.

APPLe：上面的牌子还写着“禁止进入”的告示。
APPLe: And there is a "No Entry" sign.

星锑：咳咳！
Regulus: Ahem! Ahem!

星锑：这不重要。
Regulus: It's not important.

星锑：粉丝众多的摇滚骑师并不适合在人流密集的场合出现，我可不想引起骚乱！
Regulus: It's not good for the fan-favourite disc jockey to appear in the crowded areas. I don't want to make a noise!

APPLe：原来如此。
APPLe: Oh, I see.

APPLe：我本以为船长是因为囊中羞涩才……
APPLe: I thought it was because Captain didn't have enough budget.

星锑：咳，这是彻底的误解！
Regulus: Ahem. That's a complete misunderstanding!

星锑：我们的目的是说服邋遢小子，揭露那些铁皮怪物们的邪恶计划！
Regulus: Our aim is to convince the ragged lad to expose the evil plans of those tin monsters!

星锑：当然不能大摇大摆地进去。
Regulus: Of course, we can't just walk in.

她把手揣进口袋里，却并没有感受到理想中的硬币宝贝们。
She searches her pocket but fails to find any of her ideal, lovely coins.

里面空旷得像是一片沙漠。
It's as empty as a desert.

星锑：APPLe先生……你还记得汤米说的丰厚报酬吗？
Regulus: Mr. APPLe, do you remember Tommy's offer of a generous reward?

APPLe：他希望我们提供一个出人意料的惊喜内幕……
APPLe: He hopes we can divulge a sensational secret.

APPLe：船长，你似乎很在意那份报酬。
APPLe: Captain, it seems you really want that bonus.

星锑：当然不是，仗义的街头海盗拥有着一份热心肠。
Regulus: Of course not. The righteous street Pirate has a warm heart.

星锑：我们应该帮汤米的忙……
Regulus: We should do Tommy a favour.

星锑：也应该接受朋友有分量的感谢。
Regulus: And we should accept a friend's quality thanks.

APPLe：我明白了，船长。
APPLe: I get it, Captain.

星锑：“伟大的摇滚海盗力挽狂澜……狂妄的邋遢小子迷途知返……”
Regulus: "The great rock pirate saves the day ... The cocky, ragged lad is no longer astray ..."

星锑：“拯救伦敦的大英雄接受了一系列的专访……”
Regulus: "The big hero who saves London takes a series of exclusive interviews ..."

星锑：用不完的奖金……哈哈哈哈～
Regulus: Endless bonus. Hahaha!

APPLe：船长……
APPLe: Captain.

星锑船长似乎已经预见了遥远的美好未来，但这似乎并不能帮她摆脱眼前高耸的铁丝网。
Captain Regulus seems to have foreseen a bright future. However, it doesn't seem to help her get rid of the barbed wire standing in front of her.

甚至不能帮她应对突然出现的怪人们。
Not even deal with the strange people who suddenly appear.

APPLe：船长，小心！
APPLe: Captain, watch out!

重塑·信徒：ㄚˋ——！
Manus Believer: Arrrrrrgh!

星锑：哇啊——！不要使用暴力！
Regulus: Whoa! No violence!

重塑·信徒：ㄓㄢˋ——！
Manus Believer: Arrrrrrgh!

星锑：你们是政府的人？我可没做坏事！
Regulus: Are you guys from the government? I've done nothing bad! At least not yet.

至少现在没有……

APPLe：他们的皮肤坚硬度、声线与产生的体液都与人类大相径庭，我想它们应该是……
APPLe: The skin hardness, the voice, and the liquid released from the wound have nothing to do with humans. I am afraid they are ...

星锑：啊！我知道了！它们是报纸上那些安保机器人！
Regulus: Ah! I get it! They're the security robots in the newspaper!

APPLe：当然……也有这种可能性。
APPLe: Well, it ... might be.

漆黑的领头人对星锑的质问无动于衷，只是一次次机械地重复着挥锤的动作。
The black boss is indifferent to Regulus's questions, only swinging the hammer over and over mechanically.

一如某种被设置了固定程式的战争机器。
Just like some kind of war machine programmed to work.

重塑·信徒：ㄐㄧㄠ——交出……
Manus Believer: Arrrrrrgh ... Giiiiiive ...

星锑：呃……黏液！噪音！古怪的态度！这就是他们“维护伦敦秩序”的新选择？
Regulus: Ugh! The slime! The noise! The weird tone! Is that their new way to "keep order in London"?

星锑：那些老糊涂的胡子不会是都长在了脑子里吧！
Regulus: Oh, those fuddy-duddies don't have their beards in their heads, do they?

星锑手忙脚乱地躲开对方的攻击。
Regulus avoids the attacks in a rush.

星锑：我们得改变计划了。
Regulus: We'll have to change the plan.

伦敦绝对不能被这些丑陋的铁皮怪物占领！
London must not be taken over by these ugly tin monsters!

星锑：我们得向公众们揭露这些安保机器人可怕的真面目——它们暴力、粗鲁，极具危险性……
Regulus: We need to expose the security robots to the public for what they really are—they are violent, rude, and extremely dangerous!

APPLe：APPLe某会与你奋战到最后一刻。
APPLe: This APPLe will fight by your side till the very end.

星锑：不，你肩负着更重要的任务，APPLe先生。
Regulus: No. You have a more important mission, Mr. APPLe.

星锑船长要求你占领最近的广播电台！
Captain Regulus asks you to take over the nearest radio station!

APPLe：我明白了。
APPLe: Roger that.

重塑·信徒：ㄒㄧㄢˊ——石头……
Manus Believer: Urrrrrgh ... Stooooonnne ...

TRC-10 小礼物 / A Small Gift

查尔顿先生与小狗们抵达了雷米特杯展览。
Charlton and the puppies arrive at the Rimet Cup Exhibition.

这理应是一次和谐的家庭聚会，大家都这么想。
It's supposed to be a happy family gathering. Everyone thinks so.

除了皮克勒斯。
Except Pickles.

温迪：汪汪——！
Wendy: Woof woof!

皮克勒斯：汪汪……汪汪。<谢谢你的开导，温迪……但我对粉绿色的飞盘一点也不感兴趣。>
Pickles: Woof, woof woof. <Thank you for comforting me, Wendy. But I'm afraid that I'm not impressed by this pink and green frisbee.>

温迪：汪、汪汪！
Wendy: Woof woof!

皮克勒斯：汪汪。<你还没有意识到我们面临的核心问题。>
Pickles: Woof woof. <You don't seem to understand the core problem.>

皮克勒斯瞥了瞥正在售票处忙活的查尔顿先生。
Pickles glances at Charlton, who is busy at the ticket office.

皮克勒斯：汪，汪汪。<他一点儿都不民主，也从来没有理解过我们的想法。>
Pickles: Woof woof, woof. <His leadership style is not democratic, and he never understands what we are thinking.>

皮克勒斯：汪汪……汪汪。<他把我们从书堆里、从小狗公园拉过来……就为了足球展览。>
Pickles: Woof ... woof woof. <He drags us out from our books and puppy land ... just for this football exhibition.>

温迪：汪！汪！
Wendy: Woof! Woof!

小斗牛犬努力地拱着皮克勒斯的身体，示意对方向前。
The little bulldog keeps pushing Pickles, hinting that he should move forward.

皮克勒斯：汪汪汪，汪……<不，温迪，现在不是玩耍的时候……>
Pickles: Woof ... woof! <No, Wendy, it's not the time for playing ...>

温迪：汪！汪！
Wendy: Woof! Woof!

有更多的小狗从查尔顿身旁钻出来，把皮克勒斯围在了中间。他一向是最受欢迎的小狗。
More puppies come from around Charlton and surround Pickles. He is always the most popular pup.

爱丽丝：汪——!
Alice: Woof!

纳尔森：汪汪！汪！
Nelson: Woof woof woof!

皮克勒斯：嗯——？呜呜？<查尔顿也邀请了你们？你们也对足球感兴趣？>
Pickles: Woof, woof woof. <Charlton invited you too? You are also interested in football?>

小狗们整齐地点了点头。
The puppies nod together.

皮克勒斯：……
Pickles: ...

皮克勒斯：呜……<我承认刚才的评价有些过头了……>
Pickles: Woof … <Maybe my judgment was too harsh ...>

皮克勒斯：汪……<但是……>
Pickles: Woof … <However ...>

皮克勒斯还想再说些什么，旁边查尔顿先生愤慨的抱怨声打断了他。
Pickles is about to say something more, while Charlton's indignant grumbling interrupts it.

查尔顿：你们的宣传单上明明写的是“我们欢迎每一位热爱足球运动的观众”！
Charlton: It says clearly on the leaflet, "We welcome everyone who loves football"!

安保员：是的，先生。
Security Guard: Yes, mister.

查尔顿：那你就应该让我们进去！
Charlton: Then you should let us in!!

查尔顿：我、温迪、爱丽丝、纳尔森，还有小皮克勒斯，我们都热爱足球！
Charlton: Me, Wendy, Alice, Nelson, and little Pickles. We all love football!

安保员：很抱歉，宠物禁止入内。
Security Guard: I'm sorry, but no pets are allowed in here.

安保员：我们准备了“宠物留存区”，甚至提供了专业的警犬看护。
Security Guard: We provide "pet-keeping services" with professional police dog guarding.

安保员指了指旁边巨大的笼子，里面堆满了各色的小型足球和小狗玩具。
The security guard points to the huge cage next to him. There are various mini-footballs and puppy toys.

一只黝黑的警犬懒洋洋地趴在门口。
A dark police dog slouches in the doorway.

查尔顿：呃……
Charlton: Ugh ...

查尔顿迟疑地拾起里面的一个柠檬黄色的足球玩具，用力捏了捏。
Charlton hesitantly picks up one of the lemon-yellow balls and squeezes it hard.

温迪：汪——！
Wendy: Woof woof!

纳尔森：汪汪——！
Nelson: Woof woof!

小斗牛犬跳起来叼走了查尔顿手里的球，积极地冲进了它的新乐园，其他小狗们也紧随其后。
The little bulldog jumps up and takes the ball out of Charlton's hand, rushing to its new playground. Other puppies follow closely behind.

玩具就是玩具，令人快乐的玩具。大家显然并不像人类那么在乎足球的大小与颜色。
Toys are toys, delightful toys. Obviously, no one really cares as much about the size and colour of the football as humans do.

查尔顿：噢……别磕到头，温迪～
Charlton: Oh! Don't bump your head, Wendy!

查尔顿：看样子我们都能有个不错的去处。
Charlton: Looks like we'll all have a good place to go.

查尔顿：祝你们在小狗乐园里玩得开心～
Charlton: Have a great time in the puppy land!

查尔顿朝着笼子的方向用力地挥了挥手，转身没入了游客队伍的人流之中。
Charlton waves his hands firmly, then turns and disappears into the visitors.

温迪：汪——！汪！
Wendy: Wooooof! Woof!

爱丽丝：汪～
Alice: Woof!

皮克勒斯：汪汪汪，汪。<这是个牢笼，朋友们，是可耻的区别对待。>
Pickles: Woof woof, woof woof. <This is a cage, my friends. Shameful discrimination.>

爱丽丝：汪、嗯……？
Alice: Woooof?

纳尔森：汪汪……嗯！
Nelson: Woof woof!

皮克勒斯：汪汪。<再多的玩具也无法改变这个事实。>
Pickles: Woof woof. <No matter how many toys are here, discrimination is discrimination.>

趴在门口的警犬拍了拍皮克勒斯的肩膀。
The security dog lying in the doorway pats Pickles on the shoulder.

安保犬：汪——呜！
Police Dog: Woof!

皮克勒斯：汪……吽吽。<我拒绝……你应该站在我们这边，而不是为人类的暴行做辩护。>
Pickles: Woof, woof woof. <I refuse. You should be on our side instead of defending human's atrocities.>

安保犬：吽、吽吽……
Police Dog: Woof woof ...

皮克勒斯：吽、吽吽……汪？<就算里面再危险，我们进入的权利也不应该被剥夺……等等，你说里面很危险？>
Pickles: Woof woof woof, woof? <Even it's dangerous inside, they should not deprive us of our right to get in ... Wait, you said dangerous inside?>

安保犬：汪——！
Police Dog: Woof woof!

对方重重地点了点头。
The security dog nods its head seriously.

温迪：汪、汪汪！
Wendy: Woof woof!

爱丽丝：呜呜……
Alice: Woof.

皮克勒斯：汪，汪汪。<好吧，我也确实闻到了奇怪的味道……像是某种烧焦的金属，又像是成堆的硝石。>
Pickles: Woof, woof woof. <Okay, I smell funny things too ... Like burnt metal ... or a pile of saltpeter ...>

安保犬：獒、獒獒……
Police Dog: Woof woof woof, woof ...

皮克勒斯：吽吽，吽？！<展馆里甚至多次传来了巨大的噪音与齿轮转动声……你们报告了这一情况吗？>
Pickles: Woof, woof woof … <Tremendous noises and sound of gears rotating come from the hall ... Have you reported this?>

安保犬：獒！獒！……汪！
Police Dog: Woof woof woof, woof!

皮克勒斯：汪汪汪，呜……<所有试图靠近负责人的同僚都被轰走了……你是唯一被留在这儿的……>
Pickles: Woof, woof woof … <All your colleagues who got around that person in charge were driven out ... You are the only one left ...>

爱丽丝：呜呜……？！
Alice: Woof?!

纳尔森：汪——！
Nelson: Woof woof!

小狗们听得很入神，它们七嘴八舌地展开了讨论。
The puppies listen carefully and discuss with each other.

皮克勒斯：狺狺……狺。<这确实符合我在书中了解到的人类世界常有的论调……他们常有各种各样的阴谋假说。>
Pickles: Woof ... Woof … <This does match the features of the conspiracy theories I read from the human's books ... They often have all kinds of conspiracies.>

皮克勒斯：狺狺——！<反常封闭的展馆里，也许正酝酿着一场巨大的危机。>
Pickles: Woof ... Woof … <There might be a huge crisis in this abnormal, no-dog-allowed exhibition ...>

安保犬：汪！
Police Dog: Woof!

皮克勒斯像是突然想起了什么，他转头看向门口那条正在缓缓进入场馆的队伍。
Something suddenly pops into Pickles's mind. He turns around to look at the line at the door slowly pushing its way into the exhibition hall.

查尔顿先生的身影已经不在其中了。
Charlton is no longer among them.

安保犬：呜……呜呜～
Police Dog: Woof woof!

皮克勒斯：汪汪……汪。<展厅后门可能会有溜进去的办法……谢谢你告诉我，我现在就出发。>
Pickles: Woof woof ... woof. <There should be a way to sneak in through the back door. Thank you for telling me. I'm leaving now.>

皮克勒斯展现出了作为边境牧羊犬的优良素质。
Pickles shows his excellence as a border collie.

他身手矫健地避开了所有的荆棘与护栏，像一个真正的英雄。
He dodges all the thorns and fences with aplomb, just like a real hero.

皮克勒斯：狺……狺狺。<呼……这应该是展馆早已废弃的后门。>
Pickles: Woof ... woof woof. <Phew ... This backdoor seems to have been abandoned for a long time.>

皮克勒斯：狺狺。<但愿我没浪费太多的时间。>
Pickles: Woof. <I hope I didn't waste too much time.>

皮克勒斯：狺狺，狺……<防护网能够直率地拒绝一切不受欢迎之人……>
Pickles: Woof woof, woof … <The chain-link fence rejects all the undesirables frankly.>

皮克勒斯的目光落到了那个破开的小洞上。
Pickles's eyes fall on a small hole in the fence.

皮克勒斯：狺～<但它总算对小狗们网开一面。>
Pickles: Woof. <But it fancies the puppies.>

树上偶尔会有苹果落下，这应该属于常识。
It's common knowledge that apples fall from trees occasionally.

APPLe：我们又见面了……有着忧郁眼神的小狗。
APPLe: Lovely to see you again, puppy with blue eyes.

皮克勒斯：汪汪——？<苹果先生，您怎么会在这儿？>
Pickles: Woof? <Mr. APPLe? Why are you here?>

APPLe：APPLe某受船长之托，先行进入场馆调查情况。
APPLe: This APPLe has accepted a commission from Captain to investigate the venue.

皮克勒斯：呜——？汪汪！<您也意识到了这个展馆内的危机吗？看来我的预感并没有错！>
Pickles: Woof ... woof woof! <You are aware of the crisis in this hall as well? So my perception is right!>

APPLe：对了……
APPLe: Oh, right ...

APPLe：自从上次分开之后，APPLe某就一直在思考与你交流的方法。
APPLe: Since last time we met, this APPLe has been contemplating how to communicate with you.

APPLe：我制作了这个。
APPLe: So, here it is.

APPLe：一个简易的翻译器——“Doggie”。
APPLe: A simple translator—“Doggie.”

APPLe：它仍处于测试阶段，功能并不完善，时有故障。
APPLe: It's still under testing, so the functions are not complete. Sometimes it just stops working.

APPLe：对犬类语言的理解也存在一定偏差……
APPLe: Also, it might somehow misunderstand dog language.

APPLe把翻译器递给了皮克勒斯，短暂的犹豫之后，皮克勒斯接过了它。
APPLe hands the translator to Pickles. After a brief hesitation, Pickles takes it.

皮克勒斯：汪汪……汪。<尽管我并没有频繁与人类交流的想法……但谢谢您，APPLe先生。>
Pickles: Woof woof ... woof. <Although I have no intention to frequently communicate with humans ... Thank you, Mr. APPLe.>

"Doggie"：小狗表达了他的感谢。
"Doggie": The puppy expresses his gratitude.

APPLe：不用谢。
APPLe: It's my pleasure.

APPLe：但可惜的是，APPLe某现在并没有多余的时间来测试它的效果。
APPLe: It's a pity that this APPLe doesn't have adequate time to test it.

APPLe：你最好尽快离开，这儿随时可能出现滥用暴力的安保机器人。
APPLe: You'd better leave as soon as possible. Those violent security robots may show up at any time.

皮克勒斯：呜。<我不能走。>
Pickles: Woof. <I can't.>

"Doggie"：小狗拒绝了你的建议。
"Doggie": The puppy expresses his denial.

APPLe：嗯？
APPLe: Hmm?

皮克勒斯：汪汪、汪……<查尔顿……他还在里面……>
Pickles: Woof woof … <Charlton ... Charlton is still there ...>

皮克勒斯：狺……狺狺……<虽然他是个不太合格的主人……虽然他有各种各样的坏毛病……>
Pickles: Woof … <He may not be a good master ... with a great deal of his bad habits ...>

皮克勒斯：汪汪……<但我不能忽视他可能遇到的危险……>
Pickles: Woof woof … <But I can't set the dangers he may come into aside.>

皮克勒斯：汪汪……汪汪……<温迪和其他小狗们会伤心的……它们依赖查尔顿的照顾……>
Pickles: Woof woof woof woof … <Wendy and the other puppies will be devastated ... They can't be without Charlton ...>

"Doggie"：里面有着对小狗来说非常重要的东西。
"Doggie": There is something very important for the puppy inside.

皮克勒斯：……
Pickles: ...

皮克勒斯：…………
Pickles: …

小狗陷入了沉默。
The puppy falls silent.

APPLe：原来如此，这是一个合理的理由。
APPLe: Oh, I see. Fair enough.

APPLe：让我们一同前进吧，在出现危险的时候APPLe某会尽可能帮助你的。
APPLe: Let's head forward. In the face of danger, this APPLe will do his utmost to assist.

APPLe落在皮克勒斯的背上，他们都做好了准备。
APPLe lands on Pickles's back. They are both ready to go.

简单地助跑之后，皮克勒斯在空中划出一个完美的弧线，轻松地穿过了破损的防盗网。
After a short assist, Pickles makes a perfect arc through the air and easily goes through the broken security fence.

APPLe：唔——！
APPLe: Whoaa!

皮克勒斯：汪汪……<谢谢您的翻译器，苹果先生……>
Pickles: Woof woof … <Thank you for the translator, Mr. APPLe.>

TRC-11 空降嘉宾 / Out of the Blue

小狗的瞳孔里发出靛蓝色的光芒，他灵巧地躲避着周围的机器人们。
The eyes of the puppy shine indigo. He moves agilely and swiftly, avoiding all robots.

这一次，皮克勒斯由衷地希望自己的直觉并不准确。
This time, Pickles really hopes his instinct doesn't work.

他径直蹿入了走廊尽头的房间。
He rushes into the room at the end of the corridor.

闭路电视的屏幕上闪着蓝光，展厅各处的画面在他们面前暴露无遗。
The screens of the CCTV light up in blue. Every corner of the exhibition hall is shown in front of them.

APPLe：你是如何一眼就找到这里的？你来过这儿吗？
APPLe: How do you find this place at a glance? Have you been here?

皮克勒斯：汪。<历来的直觉。>
Pickles: Woof. <Just my instinct.>

"Doggie"：小狗表达了他的谦虚。
"Doggie": The puppy expresses his modesty.

皮克勒斯：……
Pickles: ...

APPLe先生注意到了桌上的麦克风。
APPLe notices the microphone on the table.

APPLe：船长下达的任务进展顺利，这里有着齐全的广播设备。
APPLe: The mission assigned by Captain progresses smoothly. We have a whole set of broadcasting equipment here.

APPLe：接下来只需要安装对应的频率干扰装置，星锑船长就能控制附近5公里内所有的广播了。
APPLe: Hmm. Then we only need to install a corresponding frequency interference device. Captain Regulus can fully control all radio channels within the radius of 5km.

皮克勒斯的视线从一个个监控画面上迅速划过。
Pickles skims each screen quickly.

在小狗的注视中，两个鬼鬼祟祟的身影揭开了天花板上的盖子，迅速消失在通风管道里。
As Pickles stares, two sneaking figures open up the ceiling and quickly disappear in the duct.

皮克勒斯：嗯……<这儿果然有许多奇怪的事……我得赶紧找到他在哪里……>
Pickles: Woof … <It's really weird here ... I must find him right away ...>

皮克勒斯：汪汪！汪！<唔！是查尔顿，我看见他了！>
Pickles: Woof woof! Woooof! <Oh! It's Charlton! I see him.>

皮克勒斯：汪汪。<他现在正位于展示奖杯的大厅里。>
Pickles: Woof woof. <In the hall where the cup is presented.>

皮克勒斯：吽、吽吽——！<我得先走了，再见，苹果先生。>
Pickles: Woof woof. <I need to go now. Goodbye, Mr. APPLe.>

APPLe：嗯？
APPLe: Hmm?

大厅是人流最密集的位置，游客们吵吵嚷嚷，世界一片嘈杂。
The hall is the most crowded place, with visitors chatting loudly. The world here is so chaotic.

艾弗森：该死的！
Iverson: Oh! Bloody hell!

艾弗森：到底是谁把这只长毛怪物放进来的？
Iverson: Who let this plushy monster in!

艾弗森：阿嚏——！
Iverson: Achoo!

艾弗森：这地方现在全被这恶心的狗毛污染了，阿嚏！
Iverson: Now this whole place is contaminated by disgusting fur. Atishoo!

一个脸上写满了愤怒的男人朝着皮克勒斯走来。
A furious man walks towards Pickles.

他不断地按下手里的按钮，一遍又一遍。
He keeps pressing the button again and again.

皮克勒斯：汪——？<他在和我说话吗？>
Pickles: Woof? <Is he talking to me?>

皮克勒斯：汪汪汪……<你误会了，先生，我只是来……>
Pickles: Woof woof! Woof woof … <It's a mistake, sir. I'm here for ...>

艾弗森：机器人！机器人呢？！
Iverson: Robots! Where are my robots?

艾弗森：给我把它赶出去！阿嚏——！
Iverson: Drive it out! Atishoo!

安保机器人：收到指令！
Security Robot: Command received.

冰冷的铁皮机器缓缓向皮克勒斯靠近，滋滋作响的电击器从它的手掌里伸了出来。
The cold-blooded iron robot gets close to Pickles and shows him the threatening taser.

皮克勒斯：獒獒……？！<你要干什么……？>
Pickles: Woof woof? <What are you doing?>

皮克勒斯：狺，狺狺……<好吧，让我试试，尽管我还不太熟练……>
Pickles: Woof … <Alright, I'll try this, though I haven't mastered it ...>

皮克勒斯：狺狺。<抱歉，但我必须得擅自控制你们的情绪。>
Pickles: Woof. <Sorry, but I have to control your emotion without permission.>

安保机器人：他身上的光芒更加显眼。那些靛蓝色的光芒像是一柄柄利剑，不断压向机器人的位置。
Security Robot: He shines with a glorious halo. The indigo light on him overwhelms the robot, just like sharp swords.

安保机器人：滴！滴滴！
Security Robot: Beep beep! Beep beep!

安保机器人：警报，警报！检测到不知名能量！
Security Robot: Alert, alert! Unknown energy detected!

“砰——！”
Bang!

机器人突然停下了动作。仪表盘上的数字无规律地跳动，像是受到了某种神秘力量的影响。
The robot suddenly stops. The meter number fluctuates as if it's affected by a mysterious force.

皮克勒斯：狺狺、狺。<呼……看来机器人的电量同样能够视为一种过度积极的情绪。>
Pickles: Woof woof … <Phew ... So the energy of the robot is also a type of overactive emotion.>

艾弗森：怎么搞的？你坏了吗？！
Iverson: What's wrong? You broke down?

越来越多的机器人靠了上来。
More and more robots are approaching.

安保机器人：危险等级★★★★☆！
Security Robot: Risk rating: ★★★★☆

安保机器人：请求支援！请求支援！
Security Robot: Request support! Request support!

艾弗森：可怕的长毛怪物！它肯定是危险分子，必须被马上清理！
Iverson: Terrible plushy monster! It-It must be a terrorist! We must put it down right now!

艾弗森：你们给我一起上！赶走，不……把它扑杀掉！
Iverson: All of you! Drive it out. No, no, no. Put it down!

皮克勒斯：汪汪，汪汪。<你的大脑为焦虑所俘获，这极有可能使你最后陷入无法挽回的疯狂之中。>
Pickles: Woof woof ... woof woof. <Anxiety is affecting your brain, which may lead to irreparable madness.>

皮克勒斯：汪、汪汪汪。<如果你难以自制的话，我可以帮你平静下来。>
Pickles: Woof woof, woof woof. <If you are not capable of restraining yourself, I may be of help.>

这里的骚乱吸引了越来越多的游客，但艾弗森似乎毫不在意。
The chaos arouses the attention of more visitors, but Iverson doesn't seem to care about it.

艾弗森：阿嚏——！
Iverson: Achoo!

艾弗森：启动三级戒备状态！
Iverson: DEFCON III!

皮克勒斯：呜呜……<糟了，这里的情况比我预想的还要危险得多……>
Pickles: Woof ... woof … <No ... The situation here is more troublesome than I'd expected ...>

一个人影粗鲁地挤开人群，扑到了皮克勒斯身边。
A man violently pushes his way through the crowd and stands next to Pickles.

查尔顿：你想干什么？！
Charlton: What are you doing?!

查尔顿：从我的皮克勒斯身边滚开！
Charlton: Get away from my Pickles!

艾弗森：原来它是你带进来的……
Iverson: It's you who brought it in.

艾弗森：我郑重地警告你，你的狗是非常危险的不安定因素，它必须被严肃处理！
Iverson: I now warn you! Your dog is a bloody, hazardous uncertainty, and we must put it down!

查尔顿：你在说些什么鬼话！
Charlton: What a humbug!

查尔顿：他一点儿也不危险！每一位邻居朋友都喜欢他！我们现在就走！
Charlton: He's not hazardous at all! Every one of our neighbours loves him! Let's go!

艾弗森：阿嚏——！
Iverson: Achoo!

艾弗森：危险与否的决定权并不在你，你不能离开。
Iverson: You don't have a voice here. You can't leave, either.

响着刺耳警报声的机器人包围了查尔顿与小狗。
The alarming robots surround Charlton and Pickles.

皮克勒斯：吽吽……<别冲动，它们很危险……>
Pickles: Woof … <Don't act in haste. These robots are dangerous ...>

艾弗森：根据《安保指南》第172条第5细则，安保公司在执勤过程中有权直接处理一切可能存在的危险物品。
Iverson: According to Item 5, Article 172 of the Guidance on Security, security companies have the right to directly deal with any dangerous items when on duty.

艾弗森：我命令你交出这只狗！
Iverson: I command you to hand me your dog!

艾弗森：我们会赔偿你一只血统更高贵也更温顺的狗，以作为剔除不安全因素的补偿。
Iverson: As compensation, we will buy you a more purebred and more friendly dog for helping us wipe out risks.

艾弗森：别因为一只小宠物就昏了头，阿嚏！
Iverson: Don't lose your mind to a pet dog. Atishoo!

查尔顿：……
Charlton: ...

皮克勒斯：汪汪。<抱歉，这份危险似乎因我而起。>
Pickles: Woof woof. <I'm sorry. I assume I was the source of the tension here.>

皮克勒斯：呜，呜呜……<你可以先离开，我能处理好……>
Pickles: Woof … <You go first. I can take care of these ...>

查尔顿冲到了皮克勒斯的旁边，他的手臂张得很开，瞪着前方冷冰冰的“钢铁怪物”。
Charlton rushes to Pickles, stretches out his arms, and angrily stares at the cold-blooded "iron monster" in front of him.

查尔顿：你在说什么？他是我的朋友！
Charlton: What the hell are you talking about? He's my friend!

查尔顿：你这个疯子！难道你能随便丢下自己的朋友吗？
Charlton: You crazy bastard! Would you ever leave your friend alone?

查尔顿：好吧，也许你能，你这个脑子被铁块焊死的冷血蠢蛋！
Charlton: Oh, fine. Maybe you would. You cold-blooded prat! Dead from the neck up!

皮克勒斯：嗯……<你似乎从没有这么激动过……>
Pickles: Woof … <You have never been so emotional before ...>

艾弗森：如果你不希望被列入世界杯观赛黑名单的话，我奉劝你立刻停止现在的行为。
Iverson: If you don't want to be put onto the World Cup audience blacklist, I kindly request you to stop what you are doing.

查尔顿：……
Charlton: ...

查尔顿：非常好。但我要告诉你，你威胁不了我，我也绝对不会抛弃皮克勒斯。
Charlton: Very well done. But I'll tell you what, you can't threaten me! I'm definitely not leaving Pickles alone!

查尔顿：去你**的世界杯吧！
Charlton: Go f**k your World Cup!

艾弗森：愚蠢。
Iverson: Ha! What a fool.

他按下了红色的按钮。
He presses the red button.

艾弗森：抓住他们！
Iverson: Catch them!

安保机器人们开始行动起来。
The security robots quickly react.

查尔顿先生不管不顾地冲了上去，就像一位裹着红布的慷慨斗牛士。
Charlton fearlessly runs to the robots like a brave matador in a red cape.

安保机器人们收起了镇静喷剂。
The security robots take back the sedative spray.

艾弗森对它们的效率很满意。
Iverson is very pleased with their performance.

艾弗森：终于安静了……阿嚏！
Iverson: Finally ... Atishoo!

艾弗森：把通风系统开到最大功率，这里不能再出现半根狗毛！其他的机器人，去把那只狗控制住！
Iverson: Turn the ventilation system to the highest mode. I don't want any dog fur here! Other robots, go catch that dog!

安保机器人：确认指令。
Security Robot: Command confirmed.

皮克勒斯嗅了嗅陷入昏迷的查尔顿。
Pickles sniffs Charlton, who is in a coma.

皮克勒斯：汪汪……汪。<睡在这儿可不太安全……朋友。>
Pickles: Woof woof ... woof. <It's not safe to sleep here, my friend.>

机器人们愈发逼近，皮克勒斯注意到了艾弗森手上的遥控器。
The robots get closer and closer. Pickles notices the remote control in Iverson's hand.

皮克勒斯：狺……狺、狺狺。<暴力并非明智之举。只要方式得当，那些机器人也能为我们所用。>
Pickles: Woof, woof. <Violence is not a good choice. With a proper approach, those robots can work for us too.>

展馆各处的螺旋扇开始转动，速度也越来越快。
All the fans in the hall are switched on. They're spinning faster and faster.

天花板上突然传来奇怪的动静。
Suddenly, there's a strange noise from the ceiling.

挖掘艺术：喂，喂，怎么回事……？
Diggers: Hey, hey! What's going on here?

挖掘艺术：你做了什么！
Diggers: What have you done?

梅兰妮：不是我，是通风系统突然启动了！
Melania: Not me. Th-The ventilation system suddenly started to work!

挖掘艺术：这就是你说的完美无缺的方案？
Diggers: This is the perfect plan you told me?

挖掘艺术：我们要被吹出去了！
Diggers: We are going to be blown out!

梅兰妮：喂！快减速！
Melania: Hey! Slow down!

挖掘艺术：来不及了！要撞上去了！哇啊啊——！
Diggers: It's too late! Crash warning! Whoaaaaaa!

艾弗森：——！
Iverson: Haahh!!

梅兰妮：……
Melania: ...

皮克勒斯：……
Pickles: ...

挖掘艺术：嗨……
Diggers: Um, hi!

TRC-12 泡泡无可破灭 / Bubbles Won't be Broken

螺旋扇仍在剧烈地转动，源源不断地吹出强风来。
The fans keep working and generate a continuous gale.

灰尘、碎屑、奇特的磁条淤积在通风口的盖子里，偶尔飞散在艾弗森先生的脑袋上。
Dust, fragments, and strange magnets stick to the cover of the ventilation. Some of them scatter and linger above Iverson's head.

那些磁条在空中旋转着，遇到机器人便紧紧地吸附上去。
Some magnetic chips dance in the air and tightly stick to the robots when they get close.

被磁条缚住的机器人开始原地打转，更有甚者，失去了动弹的能力。
The robots, trapped by magnets, start to spin around. Some even lose their mobility.

艾弗森无暇顾及混乱中的机器人，他的头顶正在积蓄着一团愈发膨胀的阴霾，随时都可能倾泻而出。
Iverson is too busy to take care of those messy robots. There's a thick cloud above his head. His anger will burst out at any time.

艾弗森：阴沟里的老鼠……
Iverson: Nasty invader!

挖掘艺术：咳，我很抱歉，艾弗森先生，事实上我对如此直率的登场方式并不知情。
Diggers: I am sorry, Mr. Iverson. Actually, I didn't know my entrance would be so straightforward.

挖掘艺术：我想她比我更为了解具体的情况……嗯？她人呢？！
Diggers: I think she knows the situation better than ... Hmm? Where is she?!

艾弗森：看来你只是个被抛弃的可怜虫。
Iverson: It seems you are the abandoned, poor worm.

艾弗森：你还打算摆弄些什么把戏吗？关于那些毫无可能的“乌托邦”笑话。
Iverson: What else are you going to show me? Any jokes of the never-will-happen Utopia?

挖掘艺术：尽管有些自不量力，但它是有可能的。
Diggers: It may be unrealistic, but it is possible.

挖掘艺术虚弱的话音刚落，一个巨大的泡泡就从他眼前飘过。
Right after Diggers's feeble words, a huge bubble floats in front of him.

男游客：哇，好多泡泡……
Visitor: Whoa, lots of bubbles ...

男游客：这是展厅特意安排的惊喜活动吗？
Visitor: Is this the special event of the exhibition?

挖掘艺术：这些肥皂泡是……？
Diggers: These soap bubbles are ...?

挖掘艺术：啊，原来如此……通风开关被打开了，我丢在通风管道外面的肥皂泡装置……是它终于发挥作用了！
Diggers: Ah, I see. The ventilation system is switched on. The soap bubble device I threw outside is now functioning!

这是一场挖掘艺术期待已久的，席卷陈腐世界的风。
This is what Diggers has been expecting for a long time—a gale to sweep the old world.

蛰伏了许久的装置终于在此刻得到了所有人的注意。
The soap bubble device eventually catches everyone's attention.

一颗颗五彩斑斓的镜面肥皂泡开始了它们的流浪。
The colourful Reflective Bubbles start their wandering.

挖掘艺术：抱歉，请允许我借用一下您损毁的机器人～
Diggers: Excuse me, may I borrow your broken robots?

艾弗森：站住！你搞了什么鬼？这些乱七八糟的泡泡究竟是什么？
Iverson: Stop! What the hell did you do! What are these damn bubbles?

挖掘艺术：准确来说，这是一场艺术变革。
Diggers: Actually, it is a reformation of art.

挖掘艺术踩上了安保机器人的脑袋，这是一个所有人都无法忽视的位置。
Diggers steps on the head of the security robot, where everyone can see him.

安保机器人：咔咔……嘎吱。
Security Robot: ...

艾弗森：给我滚下来，臭小子！
Iverson: Get down from there! You bastard!

儿童游客：妈妈，那个奇怪的叔叔！
Young Visitor: Mum, it's that weird man!

儿童游客：他在挑衅机器人？
Young Visitor: Is he provoking the robots?

游客：难道他忘了自己签的《安全参观承诺书》吗？
Visitor: Hahh! He did sign the Safety Commitment Statement, right?

挖掘艺术：朋友们，你们是否已经厌弃了寡淡乏味的现状？
Diggers: My friends, have you been fed up with the dull and dreary reality?

挖掘艺术：你们是否渴望着逃离这个为惯例和陈规所充斥的地方！
Diggers: Do you want to get rid of this place of cliche and red tape?

挖掘艺术：你们一定也曾渴望过一个更好的世界，一个遍地音乐的和平世界。
Diggers: You once yearned for a better world, a peaceful world with music.

挖掘艺术：睁大眼睛，瞧瞧你们眼前的肥皂泡，就现在——！
Diggers: Open your eyes and look at the soap bubbles in front of you, now!

挖掘艺术：向转瞬即逝的美好致敬。
Diggers: And salute to all the transient beauties.

越来越多的彩虹肥皂泡出现在了展馆里。它们与人们好奇地彼此对望，上下起伏之中，仿佛跳起了最时兴的扭扭舞。
More and more colourful soap bubbles show up in the hall. They reflect the people's curious eyes, floating up and down in the air as if doing the most popular twist at the time.

人群开始小规模地摇摆。在光的投射下，更多的人们开始参与其中。
Some visitors start to shake their bodies. Under the light reflected by the soap bubbles, more and more people join in.

最终汇聚成狂欢的海洋。
Eventually, they become an ocean of joy.

皮克勒斯：汪汪……汪？<人类的特殊性是仅仅出现在这里，还是向来如此？>
Pickles: Woof woof ... woof. <Is the uniqueness of mankind only revealed here, or is it deeply hidden in everyone?>

皮克勒斯用爪子推了推旁边仍在呼呼大睡的查尔顿，而后者毫无反应。
Pickles tries to wake Charlton up with his paws but fails.

皮克勒斯：吽——吽吽！<醒醒，查尔顿……派对开始了。>
Pickles: Woof woof woof. <Wake up, Charlton. The party has begun.>

皮克勒斯：吽吽……吽。<哇哦……一场超出所有人想象的惊喜狂欢，跟着人们转圈的肥皂泡，像你最爱的灯球一样，真让人兴奋。>
Pickles: Woof woof woof. <Whoa! A surprise party beyond everyone's craziest fantasies! The soap bubbles are dancing around the people, just like your favourite mirror ball. How exciting.>

皮克勒斯：呜，狺狺……<好吧，看来这些诱惑远远不够……>
Pickles: Woof woof … <Alright ... I suppose these are far from attractive for him ...>

皮克勒斯试图通过语言诱惑、爪子按压、舌头攻击等一系列手段唤醒查尔顿，但始终一无所获。
Pickles tries to wake Charlton up with his paws, through barking and licking, but none of them work.

皮克勒斯：狺狺……狺狺。<查尔顿体内到底还有多少镇静喷剂……过了这么久，它的味道一点儿也没有减弱。>
Pickles: Woof ... woof. <How much sedative spray did Charlton take? It's been a while, and the smell doesn't fade at all.>

皮克勒斯：狺狺，狺。<解除效果的药水一定藏在那位暴躁先生的某个遥控器按钮里，我得设法拿到它。>
Pickles: Woof woof. <The antidote must be controlled by one of the buttons. I need to get the remote from that cranky man.>

艾弗森：把这个混混给我轰出去！
Iverson: Get this hooligan out of here!

艾弗森捏紧了遥控器，上面的按钮被按得咔咔作响。
Iverson grasps the remote control. The buttons are tightly squeezed.

安保机器人：镇静剂已准备就绪！
Security Robot: Sedative spray ready to deploy.

挖掘艺术：你不打算试试这些泡泡么？艾弗森先生。
Diggers: Don't you want to try some of these bubbles, Mr. Iverson?

挖掘艺术：我们一定能找到一个和平共处的方法。
Diggers: We can find a peaceful way to coexist.

“砰——”
Pop!

艾弗森粗暴地拍散了迅速撞过来的泡泡，混杂着蜗牛怪黏液与玫瑰精油的气味一瞬间占据了他的鼻腔。
Iverson violently pricks and destroys all the bubbles approaching him. A mixed scent of Lou mucus and rose oil immediately captures his nose.

艾弗森：无聊的小把戏。
Iverson: Boring little trick.

泡泡们接连在艾弗森的周围破裂，但他始终不为所动。
Bubbles keep breaking around Iverson, but he is indifferent.

挖掘艺术：你难道就没有一点好奇吗？
Diggers: Aren't you curious at all?

挖掘艺术：只要你看它一眼，你身上的艺术细胞就会被激活，哪怕是再僵化的铁皮脑袋也能喷薄出高亢的想象源泉！
Diggers: Take a look at it, and you'll activate every cell of art. Even iron nerds can spark all their imagination.

挖掘艺术：难道你连半点想象力的细胞也没有？
Diggers: Don't tell me your imagination level is null.

艾弗森：玩笑时间结束了。
Iverson: Joking time over.

他把控制机器人的遥控器塞进了口袋。
He puts the remote control into his pocket.

艾弗森：你的和平理想世界，自始至终都只是个笑话。
Iverson: Your Utopia has always been a joke.

艾弗森：强权、仇恨、武力，才是推动历史前进的唯一手段。
Iverson: Only hegemony, hatred, and force can push history forward.

艾弗森：无力的反抗不过是疯犬的狂吠。
Iverson: Vain revolt is like helpless barking.

艾弗森强硬地夺过机器人的武器，东倒西歪的“员工们”终于醒转过来。
Iverson grabs a robot's weapon forcefully. His "employees" have finally regained consciousness.

沉默的机器人们缓缓逼近，将挖掘艺术围在当中。
The silent robots approach slowly and surround Diggers.

挖掘艺术：也许最后我会被赶出这场美好的即兴派对，被迫和我的新朋友们告别……
Diggers: Perhaps I will be expelled from this impromptu party, away from its artistic beauty, and forced to bid farewell to my new friends ...

挖掘艺术：也许像你这样内心腐朽、麻木不仁的人终将成为世界上的主流……
Diggers: Perhaps people as insensible, cold, and numb as you will become mainstream in the end ...

挖掘艺术：但，至少不是现在。
Diggers: But, it is not now.

TRC-13 自由的频段 / The Channel of Freedom

梅兰妮：很好，虽然中间出现了一些意料之外的小插曲……
Melania: Brilliant. Although there were some unexpected hiccups ...

梅兰妮：但我们的计划正在顺利地进行当中。更换了保险丝，替换了枪弹，放置了磁条……现在大部分的机器人都已经陷入了瘫痪。
Melania: Our plan went well. The fuse has been changed, bullets replaced, magnet installed ... Most robots have been paralysed.

梅兰妮：就连艾弗森先生，似乎都进入了宕机的状态。
Melania: Even Mr. Iverson seems to be at a loss.

艾西：还没有结束。
Ms. Acey: It's not over yet.

梅兰妮：是的——呵呵，不如说，好戏还没有开场～
Melania: Yes. Heh heh, it's better to say that the show hasn't yet begun.

梅兰妮：让我们调高照明灯光，将空调耗能频率提高，加强无声广播的用电频率。
Melania: Let's turn up the light, turn down the air conditioning, and crank up the usage of the radio.

梅兰妮：看看吧，那根被换上的保险丝究竟什么时候才会过载呢？
Melania: Let's see. When will the replaced fuse blow?

梅兰妮：艾西老师，我们剩下的时间不多了。
Melania: Ms. Acey, we don't have much time left.

梅兰妮：来吧，让我带您去一个隐蔽的地方。希望您不会介意吞下一个稍有体积的“东西”。
Melania: Come on. Let me bring you to a hidden place. Hopefully, you don't mind swallowing a slightly bulky "thing."

艾西：你又想出了什么奇怪的招数？
Ms. Acey: What tricks did you come up with?

梅兰妮：这将是最为关键的一环，嘻嘻。♪
Melania: This is going to be the most crucial part. Hee hee.

梅兰妮：帮帮我吧，艾西老师。
Melania: Please help me, Ms. Acey.

艾弗森：根据安全承诺书的第十八条细则，我们理应处理影响他人正常参观的捣乱者。
Iverson: Actually, according to Item 18 in the Safety Commitment Statement, we need to arrest the violators who interrupt others' visit.

艾弗森：把他绑起来，注射哑口无言剂。我实在不想听到那些自我感动的言论了。
Iverson: Tie him up and inject Miu Miu Mute You Potion. I don't want to hear his stupid ideas anymore.

安保机器人：已接收指令。
Security Robot: Command received.

挖掘艺术：唔……唔唔……
Diggers: Umm ... umm umm ...

艾弗森：启动洒水装置，彻底清理掉那些古怪的泡泡。
Iverson: Activate the spraying system. Clean all those damn bubbles.

在喷涌的水枪与镇定喷剂的协力帮助下，人群似乎又回归了安静。
The crowd seems to calm down under the fire of the water gun and sedative spraying.

艾弗森：这儿的闹剧已经彻底结束了。
Iverson: The farce is over.

艾弗森：各位游客，现在你们可以继续参观……
Iverson: All our guests, please enjoy your visit.

艾弗森：遗憾的是，那些受到蛊惑而违背安全协议的游客，你们需要在展出结束后接受更全面的审查。
Iverson: Unfortunately, those who were bewitched and violated the Safety Commitment Statement, you will be further investigated after the exhibition.

艾弗森的注意力集中在逐渐温驯的人们身上，他丝毫没有注意到上方越发明亮的日光灯。
Iverson is concentrated on the crowd that's cooling down, but he doesn't realize the bulb above is getting brighter.

皮克勒斯：狺……狺狺。<他似乎已经彻底掌控了这里，也并不打算放我们离开。>
Pickles: Woof … <He has taken control over this place and has no intention to set us free.>

皮克勒斯：狺狺……<企图在这种局面下抢走遥控器显然十分愚蠢。可……>
Pickles: Woof … <It's an unwise choice to get the remote, but ...>

皮克勒斯蹭了蹭一旁的查尔顿，像是出征前的告别。
Pickles rubs against Charlton, like a farewell before departure.

？？？：汪汪，汪汪汪——！
???: Woof woof ...

遥远的叫声突兀地传了进来。对于皮克勒斯而言，它们无比耳熟，而且亲切。
Pickles hears the barking of dogs in the distance. The sound is so familiar and friendly.

皮克勒斯：汪汪？<我听错了吗？>
Pickles: Woof woof? <Is that the sound of ...?>

他听见了越来越密集的脚步声，由远及近。
Footsteps are getting closer and clearer.

皮克勒斯：呜，呜呜……<犬类对危险的感知相当敏锐。毫无疑问，这并非你们的本能反应……>
Pickles: Woof woof … <Canines have a very sharp sense of danger, so undoubtedly, this is not your instinctive reaction ...>

原本被关在外面的小狗军团，意外地抵达了舞台。
The puppy troop that was trapped outside unexpectedly arrives.

纳尔森：嗯——！
Nelson: Woof woof!

温迪：汪汪——！
Wendy: Woof woof!

皮克勒斯：汪汪？！<你们是怎么进来的？！>
Pickles: Woof woof? <How did you get in here?>

安保犬：汪汪——！汪！
Police Dog: Woof woof woof!

皮克勒斯：嗯……汪汪。<好吧……成熟的安保犬确实能提前感受到危机，并且具备优秀的随机应变能力。>
Pickles: Woof woof woof. <Fair enough. A well-trained security dog can sense a crisis in advance and have outstanding flexibility to meet emergencies.>

安保犬：獒呜……獒！
Police Dog: Woof! Woof!

皮克勒斯：汪汪……<但仅凭小狗们是不够的……>
Pickles: Woof woof … <But puppies alone are not enough ...>

皮克勒斯：汪汪……汪汪汪……<这些乱七八糟的东西……收音机、单片镜、女士钱包、工作手册、麦克风……>
Pickles: Woof ... Woof woof… <Wait, these messy things you brought here ... Radio, monocle, purse, working manual, microphone ...>

爱丽丝：汪汪～
Alice: Woof woof!

温迪：汪——！
Wendy: Woof woof!

皮克勒斯：汪汪……汪？<他们……都是你们特意“请”来的帮手？>
Pickles: Woof ... woof?! <These people ... That's how you ask for help?>

外面传来了愈发清晰的脚步声与呼喊声。
Footsteps and screaming are getting clearer.

路人：小坏狗——！
Passerby: Stop it! You cheeky dogs!!

记者：把我的麦克风还给我！
Journalist: Give my microphone back!

厨师：我的半条面包……我还没吃完！
Chef: My bread! I only took a bite!

四下乱窜的小狗、试图追回失物的路人们、姗姗来迟的安保员们，齐心协力地打破了艾弗森苦心维系的沉默。
The scurrying puppies, the owners of these items, and the slow-reacting security guards break the silence that Iverson has worked so hard to maintain.

艾弗森：怎么回事？谁让他们进来的！
Iverson: What's going on? Who let them in!

安保员：抱歉，艾弗森先生……他们人数众多……
Security Guard: Sorry, Mr. Iverson. There are too many of them.

皮克勒斯打了个冷战。也许是展馆的温度在不经意间变得越来越低，也许是因为他得以重新认识身边的朋友们。
Pickles gives a shiver, perhaps because it's getting cold in the exhibition hall or because he has a new impression of his puppy friends.

皮克勒斯：汪汪……呜……<我之前一直都低估了你们……你们显然不是“无用的庸碌之辈”……>
Pickles: Woof woof woof … <I've underestimated you. You are not some indecent puppies at all.>

爱丽丝：汪～
Alice: Woof!

“滋滋——”
*sizzling sound*

皮克勒斯身边的老式收音机突然传出了轻微的躁响。
The old radio next to Pickles makes a slight noise.

同时发出声响的还有悬挂在各个角落的扬声器，以及匆匆冲进场馆的人们手里的无线电广播。
Meanwhile, noises also come from the speakers at all corners and the radio broadcasters held by people rushing in.

监控室也迎来了一位气喘吁吁的新客人。
A new visitor enters the control room breathlessly.

星锑：终于赶上了，哈哈～
Regulus: Ahh! Just in time! Hahaha!

星锑：敏锐的海盗船长抵达了最盛大的舞台！
Regulus: The sharp Pirate Captain has arrived at the grandest stage!

调音台，麦克风，无线电……对于这位不请自来的客人而言，它们是最趁手的武器。
The mixer, the microphone, the radio ... They are the best weapons for this uninvited guest.

原本空乏的无声广播迅速地被更为强势的电台频率所替代。
The silent radio is soon replaced by a more powerful frequency.

星锑：这里是东经25度，迄今为止最有个性的“摇滚巨轮”APPLe号！
Regulus: This is 25°E. You are listening to the Rocking APPLe, the most distinctive ship to date!

星锑：品位一流的，热爱我的追随者们，向你们致意～！
Regulus: Salute to my discerning audience, my loving followers!

星锑：你们猜的没错，本海盗劫持了这儿所有的广播频率……
Regulus: You guessed it right. This Pirate has hijacked all the radio frequencies here.

温迪：汪汪！
Wendy: Woof woof!

星锑：现在你们在伦敦的任何地方都能清晰地收到APPLe电台。
Regulus: You're able to pick up Radio APPLe clearly from anywhere in London.

星锑：无论你是为这一时刻欢呼的，还是想要赶紧换台的听众；是喜欢摇滚，或是讨厌一切音乐的任何人……
Regulus: Whether you're cheering for the moment or wish to change the channel, whether you love rock 'n' roll or hate all music …

星锑：不要切换频道！
Regulus: Do not switch!

星锑：如果你们不希望错过一场阴谋的揭秘时刻的话。
Regulus: If you don't want to miss the moment to unveil a conspiracy …

星锑：这是一场关于伦敦当局、关于引人注目的安保机器人的巨大阴谋。
Regulus: A huge conspiracy about the London authorities and the compelling security robots.

挖掘艺术：——！
Diggers: Haahh!!

星锑：朋友们，我们正身处一场巨大的骗局之中！
Regulus: My friends, we are in the middle of a huge hoax!

星锑：伦敦当局欺骗了所有人！
Regulus: The London authorities have deceived everyone!

星锑：世界上根本不存在遵循规则、从不出错、安全可靠的……安保机器人！
Regulus: It is impossible to have such obedient, flawless, safe, and reliable security robots in this world.

星锑：与之相反，机器人滥用暴力、伤害平民、不近人情！
Regulus: On the contrary, they use violence, harm citizens, and show no kindness!

艾弗森：……
Iverson: ...

安保员：啊……？
Security Guard: What?

星锑：负责人为了掩人耳目，封锁消息……把想要找乐子……把希望观赏雷米特杯的民众们都挡在了门外！
Regulus: To cover the backsides and block the news, the man in charge … he keeps out the people who wanna have fun t-t-to visit the Rimet Cup!

星锑：星锑船长与机器人军团在展馆后门发生了激烈冲突！
Regulus: Captain Regulus clashed with the robot army at the back entrance of the hall.

星锑：英勇的船长成功逃……成功撤退！
Regulus: The brave captain managed to esca- ... to retreat!

星锑：但毫无疑问——这是对我们自由的侵犯！
Regulus: But there's no doubt that this is an infringement of our freedom!

星锑：无能的伦敦当局企图与安保公司联手，用糟糕透顶的机器人来管理伦敦！
Regulus: The incompetent London authorities attempted to work with security companies and use their awful robots to govern!

星锑：他们要夺走我们的生活，要让我们束手无策，乖乖任他们摆布！
Regulus: They want to take our life away, render us helpless, so they can manipulate us!

人们窃窃私语，像是在山崩之前无意滚落的石子们。
People are whispering. The scene is like the falling of small rocks before a severe landslide.

被五花大绑的挖掘艺术本人显然是最好的证据。
The tied-up Diggers is the best proof.

挖掘艺术：唔唔！唔唔唔——！
Diggers: Umm umm! Umm umm umm!

星锑：向你致敬，可怜的邋遢小子～
Regulus: You have my respect, poor ragged lad!

人群开始心生疑虑，他们围住了面色愈发不善的艾弗森。
People become confused and surround Iverson, who is noticeably unpleased.

路人：那个自称海盗的家伙，说的都是真的吗？
Passerby: What that Pirate said ... Is that true?!

艾弗森：我很确信，你们受到了蒙蔽。
Iverson: I am very sure—you are deceived.

记者：但你确实囚禁了一位可怜的市民。
Journalist: But you did imprison the poor citizen.

艾弗森：既然如此，我现在就可以向你们证明……
Iverson: If that's what you think, I can now prove to you ...

艾弗森：“新人类”安保的稳定性。
Iverson: … the reliability of New Humans' security.

星锑：机器怪人先生，你的邪恶理想已经被正义的船长粉碎了！
Regulus: Mr. Madbot, you and your evil plan have been overcome by the justice Captain Regulus!

星锑：伦敦属于我们，伦敦属于自由！
Regulus: London belongs to us, belongs to freedom!

艾弗森：你们说得对，这个时候，安保员们要灵活得多。
Iverson: You're right. In such case, security guards are more flexible.

安保员：这……您的意思是……？
Security Guard: You ... You mean …

艾弗森：愣着干嘛？这里的所有人都在破坏秩序！你们难道要对破坏分子无动于衷吗？
Iverson: Do something! These people are breaking the rules! Are you just going to stand and watch?

安保员：明……明白。
Security Guard: Co ... copy that.

记者：你们要干什么？
Journalist: Wh-What are you doing!

路人：大家快跑！
Passerby: Ruuuuuun!

星锑：APPLe先生，快，把录像带收好～
Regulus: Mr. APPLe, here! Put the tape away.

广播里快速地滑过了一声嘀咕。
There is a short mutter on the radio.

接着，它转变为雄心壮志、洋洋得意的宣言。
Then it becomes a declaration of ambition and passion.

星锑：哈哈，本海盗的直觉从不出错。
Regulus: Haha. This Pirate's instincts are never wrong.

星锑：我的助手APPLe先生记录了第一现场的所有珍贵画面。
Regulus: My assistant, Mr. APPLe, has first-hand evidence of everything.

星锑：这将会是最具破坏力的新闻，每一家报社都值得为这条消息一掷千金。
Regulus: It will be the most sensational news. Every news agency will invest millions on it.

星锑：接下来的这首歌，送给恼羞成怒的可怜当局……
Regulus: The next song, for the exasperated poor authorities ...

那颗被特意换上的老旧保险丝终于在异常升高的电流中悄然熔断。
The old fuse that was deliberately installed is finally blowing as the temperature rises.

星锑：嗯？怎么停电了？
Regulus: Huh? Why is the power out?

梅兰妮：嗯哼～一切顺利。
Melania: Uh huh. All is ready.

TRC-14 真相泛滥 / Information Overload

艾弗森：快，把应急灯打开……再去查查线路到底出了什么问题！
Iverson: Go! Turn on the emergency light and go check the circuit!

安保员：是！
Security Guard: Copy that!

皮克勒斯：汪汪。
Pickles: Woof woof. <The chance will come soon.>

<我想机会很快就会来了。>
A spotlight casts down from the ceiling and focuses on the brightest place—the showcase of the Rimet Cup.

一束聚光灯从天花板上落了下来，照在了展厅最耀眼的地方——雷米特杯的展示台上。

艾弗森：混账，你搞错了，这可不是应急灯！
Iverson: You moron! What're you doing! This is not the emergency light!

安保员：不是的，那不是我开的……是奖……奖杯不见了！
Security Guard: No, no, that wasn't me. The cup! The cup is missing!

安保员：不是的，那不是我开的……是奖……奖杯不见了！
Security Guard: No, no, that wasn't me. The cup! The cup is missing!

以滴水不漏的保护为名，而行裹挟之实。
Flawless protection is just a disguise, while threatening is the essence.

在这个乏味又呆板的展厅里……
In such a dull and dreadful exhibition hall ...

是否还有人会记得……
Does anyone still remember ...

那些充满了想象力与奇迹的故事？
Those stories full of imagination and miracles?

所有的荣光都落在玻璃展示柜里。她捧着雷米特杯，如同拥着一位失而复得的老友。
All the lights shine on the glass showcase. She holds the Rimet Cup, just like hugging a long-lost friend.

没有人注意到，展示柜上雷米特杯的名牌已经不见踪影。
Nobody notices that the name tag for the Rimet Cup has disappeared from the showcase.

儿童游客：呀！怎么会有人在展览柜里面哇！
Young Visitor: Whoa! Someone is in the case!

记者：雷米特杯……雷米特杯在她手里？！她是怎么进去的？
Journalist: She … she holds the Rimet Cup?! How did she get in there!

梅兰妮：是的，它现在终于回来了，回到了拉米雷斯的手里。
Melania: Yes. It's finally back now, back to Ramirez.

记者：拉米雷斯？是那个造假事件的……破产公司！
Journalist: Ramirez? Hahh! The company that forged the Rimet Cup and went bankrupt!

艾弗森：你是……？
Iverson: You are …

梅兰妮：哦，好久不见。
Melania: Oh, it's been a long time.

梅兰妮：“新人类”公司的负责人，当年事件的亲历者，最终寻回雷米特杯的幸运儿，艾弗森先生。
Melania: The leader of New Humans, the witness to the events that year, and the lucky man who finally retrieved the Rimet Cup—Mr. Iverson.

梅兰妮：你比任何人都更清楚雷米特杯的故事，不是吗？
Melania: You know the story of the Rimet Cup better than anyone, don't you?

艾弗森：你究竟是谁？！
Iverson: Who are you?!

梅兰妮：你们排斥着拉米雷斯的标新立异，憎恨他们出人意料的想象力与接连不断的奇迹故事。
Melania: You were repelled by Ramirez's novelty and hated their surprising imagination and miracle stories one after another.

梅兰妮：“明明老老实实地遵守规矩就好，就算失败了，也没人能够指摘我们……”
Melania: "Apparently, it is better to follow the rules, even if we fail. We'll have nothing to be blamed ..."

梅兰妮：为了摧毁那颗明星，同行们联合伪造了一座雷米特杯，精心谋划了一场注定失败的安保委托。
Melania: To bury that shining star, the peers jointly forged a Rimet Cup, and carefully schemed a security commission that was doomed to fail.

艾弗森：一派胡言！你这个小偷，别想在这里中伤我们！
Iverson: Bollocks! You are a thief! You're not going to defame us!

梅兰妮：呵呵……
Melania: Heh heh ...

梅兰妮：拉米雷斯家有着在每一份保管物上留下神秘学标记的传统。
Melania: The Ramirezs have a tradition of leaving arcane marks on each item for safekeeping.

梅兰妮：它们能在特殊的相机中显形。
Melania: The marks will be revealed with special cameras.

梅兰妮：是的。这是我们从来没有守护过的，真正的雷米特杯。
Melania: Yes. This is the real Rimet Cup that we have never protected before.

梅兰妮：现在，我终于找到了真相……
Melania: Now, I've finally found the truth.

艾弗森：……
Iverson: ...

梅兰妮：哦！抱歉，我遗漏了自我介绍环节，你们可以称我为怪盗艾西。
Melania: Oh, sorry. I forgot to introduce myself. You may call me The Great Thief Acey.

记者：上帝保佑！她就是那个盗走无数珍宝的大盗！
Journalist: For heaven's sake! She is that thief who stole countless treasures!

梅兰妮：当然也可以称呼我的本名——
Melania: Or, my real name, of course—

梅兰妮：梅兰妮·拉米雷斯。
Melania: Melania Ramirez.

安保员：艾弗森先生，我……我们该怎么办？
Security Guard: Mr. Iverson … what shall we do?

艾弗森：别在意她说的！
Iverson: Don't listen to her!

艾弗森：难道你要相信一个小偷说的话吗？
Iverson: Are you going to believe a thief?

安保员：可是现在的这些情况，指南上都没有对应的处理办法……
Security Guard: But there's no article on guidance that we could follow to deal with a situation like this ...

艾弗森：蠢蛋！
Iverson: Fathead!

艾弗森：把她解决了，之后什么事都不会发生！
Iverson: Put her down, then everything will be fine!

艾弗森：把你们手上的家伙都用上！
Iverson: Guns ready!

艾弗森阴沉地看着面前的梅兰妮，手上的青筋凸起，他摸到了遥控器上最不起眼的按钮。
Iverson stares at Melania like a demon. The veins on his arms burst. He furtively presses the almost imperceptible button on the remote control.

机器人们的背部外壳脱落了，狰狞的黑色枪管露了出来，它们缓缓抬起，对准那个最高的地方。
The backs of the robots fall off, unveiling the bloody black guns. They slowly move upwards, aiming for the highest spot.

艾弗森：我本以为这些钢芯弹永远也派不上用场。
Iverson: I thought I would never use these steel bullets.

他按下了按钮。
He presses the button.

梅兰妮：看上去你们做出了最坏的选择。
Melania: Looks like you guys made the worst choice.

梅兰妮：还好，意料之中。
Melania: Well, it's not surprising.

艾弗森跌倒在地，遥控器躺在一旁，像是为故事画上了最后的句号。
Iverson falls to the ground, dropping the remote control aside. It's like a period in the whole story.

那些朝着梅兰妮飞去的“子弹”与麻醉剂，毫无预兆地在半空中突兀地炸开。
Those "bullets" and tranquilizers flying towards Melania suddenly explode.

梅兰妮：忘了说，机器人携带的部分装备实际上已经超出了《安保指南》的规定，我为你们替换成了更为安全的烟花弹。
Melania: Oh, I forgot to tell you that some of the equipment carried by the robots have violated the Guidance on Security. So, I replaced them with safer firework bullets.

所有人都被淹没在烟花的光晕之中，小狗勇敢地朝着艾弗森脚边的遥控器奔去。
All people are drowned in the halo of the fireworks. The puppy dashes fearlessly towards Iverson's remote control.

皮克勒斯：汪——！<就是现在！>
Pickles: Woof! <Now!>

这是一份关于种种失败的临别赠礼。
This is a parting gift after all the failures.

梅兰妮：物物相易——！
Melania: Eroj Exchange!

梅兰妮：抱歉，存在重大安全隐患的遥控器还是尽早销毁为好。
Melania: Sorry, but it's better to destroy the remote control that will place our security at risk as early as possible, okay?

她笑了笑，打了个响指，身影从展览台上消失了。
She laughs, snaps her fingers, and disappears.

取而代之的，是雷米特杯的展示名牌，又重新立在了上面。
What remains is the exhibition name tag for the Rimet Cup, which appears again on the showcase.

路人：等等……快看那只小狗！
Passerby: Wait! Look at that dog!

温迪：汪——！
Wendy: Woof woof!

路人：不！不是它，是那只边境牧羊犬！
Passerby: No, not that one! Look at that border collie!

路人：它为我们寻回了雷米特杯——！
Passerby: He found us the Rimet Cup!!

皮克勒斯：汪？<嗯？>
Pickles: Woof? <Hmm?>

TRC-15 选择题 / The Puppy's Choice

皮克勒斯：汪……汪……<遥控器……奖杯……>
Pickles: Woof .... woof … <Remote ... Cup ...>

皮克勒斯：汪！汪汪。<奖杯上面还有气味！……她是神秘学家，并且也在这附近。>
Pickles: Woof woof woof! <There is a smell left on the cup! She is also an arcanist, and she's still around.>

他把奖杯放在了查尔顿的身边，近乎逃离地向更僻静处跑去。
He places the cup next to Charlton and then runs towards a quiet corner.

路人：嘿！那只小狗跑了，它打算做什么？
Passerby: Ahh! Puppy ran away. What's he gonna do?

艾西：咳咳咳……难受，恶心，想哭。
Ms. Acey: *coughs* Feeling sick. Disgusting. Almost crying.

梅兰妮：抱……抱歉，艾西老师。是我一下子让你吃了太多的怪东西……呃，甚至包括了我。
Melania: Sor-Sorry, Ms. Acey. It was me who asked you to swallow too much weird stuff, ugh, even including me.

梅兰妮：我发誓，等事情结束以后，我一定会带你去专业的皮包保养店好好护理一次！
Melania: I swear, when it's all over, I will take you to a professional leather care store for proper treatment!

梅兰妮：但现在，我们得尽快离开这儿。
Melania: But now, we have to get out of here as soon as possible.

艾西：完成了？
Ms. Acey: Are you finished?

梅兰妮：当然，艾弗森的表情像是刚吞下了一整只鼻涕史莱姆，他最终输给了神秘学家们的想象力。
Melania: Of course. Iverson looks as if he's just swallowed a whole slug slime. Eventually, he's lost to the arcanist's imagination.

梅兰妮：那些意外出现的记者朋友们想必不会错过这个大新闻。
Melania: Those journalists who are not in the plan would definitely not miss the big news.

梅兰妮：现在里面乱成一团……而我们，将在这时候轻松离开——
Melania: It's all a mess here, and we are going to leave with ease now—

梅兰妮：无人发觉～
Melania: Unnoticed.

皮克勒斯：吽！
Pickles: Wooooof!

梅兰妮：嗯……是什么来了？
Melania: Hmm? What's coming?

艾西：同类。
Ms. Acey: Our kind of creature.

梅兰妮：竟然有人找到了我，是我的行迹泄露了吗？
Melania: I can't believe someone has found me. Am I exposed?

皮克勒斯：吽吽，吽……<无意冒犯，女士，您似乎拿错了东西……>
Pickles: Woof woof woof … <No offense, lady, you may have brought the wrong thing with you ...>

梅兰妮：嘘……等等，等等！不要乱吠，别把其他人吸引过来了！
Melania: Shh ... Wait, wait! Stop barking. Let's not get the others' attention!

皮克勒斯：汪，汪汪！<我得叫醒查尔顿，并且尽快离开……在这里陷入更难以解释的状况之前。>
Pickles: Woof woof woof!

皮克勒斯放低了声音，但仍然在倾诉着什么。
Pickles lowers his voice and keeps saying something.

艾西：急迫，却无敌意。
Ms. Acey: An anxious but friendly puppy.

梅兰妮：好吧，小狗，谈谈你的条件吧。
Melania: Huuhh, all right, puppy. Let's make a deal.

"Doggie"：小狗希望摆脱目前的处境。
"Doggie": The puppy wants to get rid of the current situation.

梅兰妮：你想离开这儿？
Melania: You wanna get out of here?

梅兰妮：尽管不在计划之内，但我确实可以捎你一程。
Melania: It's not part of the plan, but I can take you for a ride.

皮克勒斯：汪汪……？<离开？我没打算……>
Pickles: Woof woof … <Leave? No ...>

皮克勒斯：嗯……<至少不是现在……>
Pickles: Woof! <At least not now.>

"Doggie"：小狗寻求着你的帮助。
"Doggie": The puppy is asking for your opinion.

梅兰妮：你想要什么？
Melania: What do you want?

梅兰妮：这个，一瞬消失的“隐形颜料”，它能让你避开所有人的耳目，当然也能骗过小狗们。
Melania: This? The pigment to make you invisible in a second. No one will see you, including your puppy friends.

皮克勒斯：……
Pickles: ...

梅兰妮：或是这个，“微风滑臂”。当你展开双臂……咳，展开前腿时，只需要一点儿微风，鼓动的覆膜能让你去往任何地方。
Melania: Or, this? Breeze Glider. When you open your arms, or, um, your front legs, all it takes is a little breeze, and the flying membrane will get you anywhere.

皮克勒斯：……
Pickles: ...

皮克勒斯：狺狺，狺。<它们听上去与我的理想无比契合，像是量身定做。>
Pickles: Wooooof. <Sounds like some tailor-made tools for my aspiration ...>

皮克勒斯：呜……<但……>
Pickles: Woof … <But ...>

梅兰妮：还是说，你也打算让这儿的人都吓一大跳？
Melania: Or, say, are you going to give everyone a surprise, too?

梅兰妮：一个“震荡闹钟”，能赶走附近所有的瞌睡虫，让所有人都无比清醒。咳，它一般用于应对那些昏昏欲睡的安保员们。
Melania: Shock Alarm. It will wake up all the sleepyheads, keeping everyone wide awake. Ummm, it's often used to deal with those heavy-headed security guards.

越发靠近的脚步声打断了他们的“交流”。
The approaching footsteps interrupt their "communication."

路人：那只小狗呢？它刚才好像往这边来了……
Passerby: Where is that puppy? I think it just came this way.

路人：一只找到奖杯的小狗！这绝对是个大新闻，所有人都该围着它团团转！
Passerby: A dog retrieved the cup! Mind-blowing news! He will be the star!

梅兰妮：情况不对。
Melania: It sounds weird.

梅兰妮：你得尽快做出选择了，敏锐的小狗。
Melania: You have to make your choice, smart puppy.

那些稀奇古怪的道具陈列在皮克勒斯的面前，这将是一个意义非凡的决定。
Those weird tools are displayed in front of Pickles. This is definitely an exceptional decision.

梅兰妮：再见，小狗。
Melania: Cheers, pup.

皮克勒斯：…………
Pickles: …

刺耳的闹铃声回荡在展馆的各个角落，英雄小狗的故事终于得到了所有人的关注。
刺耳的闹铃声回荡在展馆的各个角落。

查尔顿得以苏醒，而英雄小狗的故事终于得到了所有人的关注。
With the noisy ring in the hall, the story of a hero puppy eventually catches everyone's attention.

TRC-16 皆大欢喜 / As We Like It

皮克勒斯：汪……汪汪！<等等……这其中存在着许多误会！>
Pickles: Woof ... Woof woof! <Wait, there must be some misunderstandings!>

皮克勒斯：汪……汪汪！<冷静点朋友们……>
Pickles: Woof ... woof! <Calm down, my friends.>

温迪：汪汪——！
Wendy: Woof woof!

皮克勒斯：汪、汪汪汪……汪汪！<噢——别碰我的尾巴……眼镜也不行！>
Pickles: Woof woof ... woof woof! <Oh, please don't touch my tail ... Glasses either!>

安保犬：汪汪～～汪～
Police Dog: Woof woof woof!

皮克勒斯：汪汪……<好吧，这确实是小狗们的胜利……>
Pickles: Woof woof … <Well, indeed, victory for puppies ...>

皮克勒斯：呜呜……<他们看起来越发激动了……>
Pickles: Woof woof woof. <They are getting more and more excited.>

皮克勒斯：獒……汪汪汪——！<喂……理解、理解万岁！！>
Pickles: Woof woof woof woof! <Hey ... Mutual, mutual understanding!>

皮克勒斯的挣扎与求救声被淹没在愈发高涨的庆祝氛围里，英雄小狗被兴奋的人群簇拥在了最中心。
Pickles's struggling and crying for help are swallowed by the festive realm. The hero puppy is surrounded by the excited crowd.

与物归原位的雷米特杯一起。
Together with the Rimet Cup.

查尔顿：……
Charlton: ...

查尔顿恰到好处地清醒了过来，他仓促但积极地接受了这一现状。
Charlton wakes up at this very moment. He awkwardly but happily accepts everything.

记者：您好，请问您是这位英雄小狗的主人吗？
Journalist: Hello, sir. Are you the owner of this hero puppy?

查尔顿：不全是，但我是他的朋友……最要好的那一位。
Charlton: Not exactly. I'm his friend, best friend.

记者：呃……请问您方便透露如此聪明的小狗是如何培养出来的吗？
Journalist: Um ... Would you mind telling us how you raised such a brilliant dog?

记者：我想新闻登出之后，会有更多的朋友关心小狗平时的生活。
Journalist: I guess people will care about the puppy's daily life after the article's published.

查尔顿：唔……我常陪他欣赏一些交响乐，有时我们会一起探讨深刻的哲学问题……
Charlton: Well, I often enjoy the symphony with him. Sometimes we'll discuss profound philosophical issues together.

查尔顿：没错，我们家有着相当丰富的书籍藏品，比如《第一哲学沉思集》、《理想国》、《亚历山大修辞学》之类的……
Charlton: Yes. We have quite an extensive collection of books at home, for example, Meditationes de Prima Philosophia, The Republic, Rhetoric to Alexander ...

皮克勒斯：……
Pickles: ...

记者：……这是非常重要的第一手资料。
Journalist: That's an informative first-hand material.

记者：谢谢您的合作，小狗主人先生。
Journalist: Thanks for your cooperation, Mr. Owner.

查尔顿：很高兴能接受你们的采访……皮克勒斯也是。
Charlton: It's been a pleasure to be interviewed by you. Pickles, too.

皮克勒斯：……
Pickles: ...

记者：那就好，后续我们可能会有进一步的报道需要您配合……源源不断的专访，电影拍摄，与英格兰足球队的友谊赛。
Journalist: That's beautiful. We may have further and more detailed interviews that need your cooperation. A constant stream of interviews, film shoots, and friendly matches with the England national football team will follow.

记者：我想英格兰足球队也一定希望当面感谢拯救世界杯荣誉的大英雄……
Journalist: I'm sure the team would also like to thank the hero who guarded the cup in person.

记者：小狗的英勇行为甚至极有可能受到电影投资商的青睐……
Journalist: The puppy's heroic act may even be highly appealing to film investors.

查尔顿：真的——？！
Charlton: Really?!

皮克勒斯：汪汪，汪。<尽管我已经预见了这一切，但接受现实仍是一件相当困难的事。>
Pickles: Woooof woooof. <Though I've foreseen all of this, it's still hard for me to accept the reality.>

皮克勒斯：汪……<谁能救救我……>
Pickles: Woof … <Help ...>

人类的悲欢并不相通，即使身处同一个展厅。
People are not able to share happiness or divide sorrow, even if they stand in the same exhibition hall.

无人问津的另一侧，有人正向隅而泣。
On the other side of the hall, someone else is crying.

挖掘艺术：流浪是我注定的宿命……
Diggers: Wandering is my destiny.

挖掘艺术：在一场史无前例的、超乎想象的惊喜肥皂泡派对之后……
Diggers: After an unprecedented and unexpected soap bubble surprise party ...

挖掘艺术：人们居然没有留下任何一点关于美好世界的即兴创作。
Diggers: None of them left anything improvised about Utopia!

挖掘艺术：甚至没有一个人提起过我的贡献……所有人都忽略了一个推动新时代的先驱——！
Diggers: Not even one of them mentioning my contribution! All the people ignored a pioneer who created a new era!

挖掘艺术：足以成为历史的伟大事件竟可笑地比不过一只小狗的吸引力。
Diggers: A monumental event was shamefully compared to a puppy!

挖掘艺术：……
Diggers: ...

挖掘艺术：啊……艺术已死。
Diggers: Ahh! Art is dead.

？？？：这是我所遇到的其中一个故事，《UTTU》的读者们。
???: That's one of the stories I've come across, readers of UTTU.

？？？：它充满了戏剧性——误解——以及可爱动物与可怕的阴谋，又为我们带来了啼笑皆非的结局。
???: It's dramatic—full of misunderstandings, lovely animals, and terrifying intrigues, again providing us with a ludicrous ending.

？？？：我很高兴能把它讲述给你们。
???: I'm glad to have the great honor to share this with you.

？？？：无论你在哪儿，正在经历什么，希望它能带给你片刻的快乐。
???: Wherever you are, whatever you've been ... I hope this story will bring you a moment of joy.

？？？：我也由衷地期待着……你们的故事。
???: And I am also sincerely looking forward to ... your stories.
