再见，来亚什基 - Farewell, Rayashki

目录

- FR-01 欢迎仪式 / Welcoming Ceremony
- FR-02 大发现！ / Big Discoveries!
- FR-03 羽茅地 / Needle-Grass
- FR-04 园丁对花儿说 / Said the Gardener to Flowers
- FR-05 手风琴 / Accordion
- FR-06 好日子，坏日子 / Good Days, Bad Days
- FR-07 纸奖章 / A Paper Medal
- FR-08 工厂颂 / The Ode of Factory
- FR-09 比知识更重 / Heavier Than Knowledge
- FR-10 仅有的日子 / The Only Days Left
- FR-11 最后一位乡下人 / The Ley Hunter
- FR-12 晚班列车 / The Night Train
- FR-13 别了芝诺！ / So Long, Zeno!
- FR-14 从现实到现实 / The Future We Choose
- FR-15 哦草根，草根 / O, Grass-Roots
- FR-16 前进进行曲 / Marching March
- FR-17 雪与雪之外的 / Snow, and the Others
- FR-18 你好，来亚什基 / Hello, Rayashki
- FR-19 致后代 / To Descendants

FR-01 欢迎仪式 / Welcoming Ceremony

？？？：来亚什基是我有幸途经的许多小镇之一。
???: I once traveled to a small town called Rayashki.

？？？：它坐落于北极，一个相当寒冷的地方。
???: It was located high up within the Arctic Circle, and it was frigid cold all year long.

？？？：在那之后，我途经西兰岛、巴尔干半岛……以及后来的许多地方。
???: After my visit there, I traveled to many more places, from Zealand to the Balkan Peninsula. My journey went on and on.

？？？：我始终怀念着这儿的一切，那炽热的光亮，那无比美好的初衷……
???: But above all other places, I kept finding my thoughts returning to that little town. To its incandescent lights glowing in the long dark of the polar night, to the shared dream of the people there.

？？？：我在来亚什基收获了这本画册。
???: I got this picture book from Rayashki.

它是一本小巧而温暖的儿童绘本。
It is a children's book—a thin one at that. But, story inside has the power to warm a frigid heart.

稚嫩而强烈的色彩笨拙地晕开在一张张白纸上。
Once opened, whirls of bright primary colors run into one another and flow up onto my palm.

在之后反复发生的恶劣天气里，我无处可去，悄悄抚摩了它许多次。
I found myself returning to it during stormy days when I was stuck at home.

远方的故人

Farewell, Rayashki
This is a story about honest and ordinary people.

—The Friend from Afar
是的，这是个关于无数平凡而质朴的人们的故事。

？？？：天鹅们正在跳舞，围成圈儿，来回——来去——地挥着手臂！
???: The swans are dancing in a circle. Their arms go back and forth!

？？？：在今天之前的一个星期里，维拉带着天鹅们已经跳了二十次……就是她教给了天鹅们最优美的舞步。
???: Vila and the swans have done this dance almost twenty times last week. She taught the swans all their beautiful moves.

？？？：“《天鹅湖》是最好的芭蕾舞剧。”——叶甫根尼先生好像是这样说的。他还说会有乌龟来看……乌龟为什么要看天鹅呢？
???: "Swan Lake is the best ballet ever," I remembered Mr. Evgeni once said so. He also said the tortoises would come to watch the show. But why would tortoises want to watch Swan Lake?

？？？：维拉不喜欢乌龟，她喜欢“知识”……我不记得“知识”，但维拉是对的。
???: Vila says she doesn't like the tortoises. She likes "knowledge." I don't know much about knowledge, but I think Ms. Vila is always right.

？？？：嘘——维拉身上有海藻和珊瑚的味道，很好闻。说不定她是海洋的公主呢……
???: Only between you and me—Vila smells like seaweed and coral. But those are "happy" smells to me. I think she must be the princess of the ocean.

？？？：但她告诉我们，所有人都是一样的，她一点儿也不特别。
???: But she tells us she is not special and that everyone here is equal, no matter if they are a princess or a swan!

？？？：我们都有双脚，有手指头，都可以一起“建设”我们的小镇，也可以一起表演。
???: That we all have two feet and ten fingers, and if we all work together, we can "build a beacon to the future." I hope in the future we still get to sing and dance, when we are not building beacons.

？？？：尼娜最喜欢的食物是阿廖卡巧克力。她在舞步跳错的时候总是流泪……但在维拉和她聊天之后，她就很少落泪了。
???: Nina's favorite food is called Alenka; it's a chocolate bar. She used to cry a lot whenever she made a mistake with her dancing, but then Vila talked to her, and now she doesn't cry so much.

？？？：有一次，她成功地完成了所有的舞步，维拉给了她一小块阿廖卡。
???: One time, she danced very, very perfectly, so Vila gave her a piece of an Alenka bar.

？？？：如果她不紧张的话，我想她会表演得很好……说不定还能再得到一小块巧克力！
???: I believe she will be a great dancer—if she doesn't get too nervous on stage, then she could have even more chocolate!

？？？：我很羡慕她，我也想吃巧克力。
???: I wish I was like her. I want chocolate too!

？？？：但我不是天鹅……而且，食堂里的橱柜里已经很久没有阿廖卡了。
???: But I'm not a swan like her. And now there's never any Alenka in the canteen's cupboard.

消图
视频1-小镇的天鹅湖芭蕾舞（使用氛围图1）孩子们围绕着小镇广场跳芭蕾舞，随着阿夫西维的讲述逐渐移动镜头

？？？：现在，尼娜成为了我们的天鹅公主——天鹅里面最漂亮的那一只。
???: Now, Nina is the swan princess—the most prettiest of all swans.

？？？：帕索诺是所有人都喜欢的王子，他是一只善良的天鹅，有很多天鹅朋友。
???: Pasono is the swan prince. He is a nice swan, and he has many many swan friends.

？？？：而彼得森是魔王，一只黑色的天鹅……大家都不希望成为魔王，但彼得森愿意。
???: And Pyotr is the evil sorcerer, a black swan. Nobody wanted to be the bad guy, but Pyotr doesn't mind.

？？？：他很认真，对每一个人都很严格。他只有很少的天鹅朋友。
???: He is very serious and always bossy to everyone, so he doesn't have many swan friends.

？？？：彼得森比任何人都希望做好他的工作……他很爱我们的小镇。
???: Pyotr just wants to do his job as perfectly as he can, because he loves our town.

阿夫西维：阿夫西维不是天鹅，但他也喜欢这儿。
Avgust: Now Avgust is not a swan, but he also loves his town.

阿夫西维：嗅嗅……
Avgust: *sniffs*

阿夫西维：凉飕飕、一阵风一样轻飘飘的小老鼠……
Avgust: Then there is the little mouse, who moves as quickly as the blowing wind.

阿夫西维：……是我们的新朋友吗？！
Avgust: Will it be our new visitor?!

阿夫西维：这是维拉说过的知识，我不记得了……
Avgust: What was it that Vila said about new visitors? I don't remember now.

结尾
视频结束
小镇广场（现实一面）

阿夫西维放下画纸，回到更喧哗的世界。
Avgust puts down his paper, returning to the world of noise and people.

他四处奔走，搜寻着那个熟悉的身影。
He looks around for a familiar face.

阿夫西维：维拉——！
Avgust: Vila!

他穿过层叠的人群，终于在一片雪地前发现了目标。
The boy slips through the crowd. Until at last he finds that face, looking out over a snowy field.

维拉：嗯……？
Vila: Mm?

阿夫西维：向你报告，维拉，我有一个重要的问题！
Avgust: Reporting to you, Comrade Vila! I have a very important question!

维拉：请说，阿夫西维同志。
Vila: Well, then go ahead, little Comrade Avgust.

阿夫西维：我们应该怎么对待新的客人？
Avgust: How should we receive the new visitors coming to town?

阿夫西维：是阿廖卡、友谊，还是别的什么呢……
Avgust: Maybe we can welcome them with Alenka, or friendship, or maybe something else?

维拉：呵呵～
Vila: *chuckles*

维拉：以白雪，以友好，以对待理想的同样热忱——我们欢迎每一位远道而来的朋友。
Vila: We will welcome them with white snow, with smiles on our faces, and with the welcoming arms we use to achieve our dreams. As we do for everyone who comes here, little comrade.

维拉站起身来，轻轻拂去孩子身上沾染的颜料。
Vila wipes away the paint from the child's face and stands.

维拉：好奇是很好的。但无论如何，别忘了属于你的劳动，好吗？
Vila: It's always good to ask questions. But don't forget your task today, alright?

她眨了眨眼，悄悄地指了指对方手上那幅尚未完成的“画作”。
She points to the unfinished painting in his hand.

孩子忙不迭地点头。
Avgust nods eagerly.

阿夫西维：我记住了——！
Avgust: I won't!

阿夫西维：画画很重要，欢迎新朋友也很重要，我该先做哪一个呢？
Avgust: My drawings are important, but Vila says entertaining our new friends is also important. Which one comes first?

忙碌的画板又支了起来。
He holds up his cluttered drawing board.

阿夫西维：天鹅们飞走了，叶甫根尼该上台了。
Avgust: After the swans have flown away, Evgeni will go up to the stage.

阿夫西维：叶甫根尼不是魔王，但他擅长让人不说话的魔法。
Avgust: Evgeni is not an evil sorcerer, but he knows a secret magic that makes everyone's tongues hide in their mouths.

阿夫西维：他的影子很长，连向日葵也看不懂……但他不是坏人，我想。
Avgust: He is not so much a bad person, I think. Evgeni's shadow is very long, but no one, not even my sunflower, can explain why.

阿夫西维：叶甫根尼走得很慢，没有人为他鼓掌。
Avgust: Evgeni walks heavily onto the stage; his appearance comes without any applause.

挺拔的身影终于登上了演讲台。
The tall figure reaches the podium.

叶甫根尼：咳——
Evgeni: *clears throat*

叶甫根尼：根据不久前收到的电报，芝诺调查员将在明日下午抵达来亚什基。
Evgeni: We have received a telegraph. Zeno's investigators will arrive here in Rayashki tomorrow afternoon.

叶甫根尼：这正是我们举行欢迎仪式的目的。
Evgeni: And we will be hosting a welcome ceremony.

台下维持着既有的沉默，无人应答。
The crowd is silent in reply.

推镜

叶甫根尼：我能理解各位的心情。你们并不希望芝诺过多地干预小镇的发展，更不希望让芝诺派驻军队保护小镇……
Evgeni: I understand your concerns. I know you don't want Zeno to interfere with your lives, nor do you want their troops stationed here.

叶甫根尼：事实上，他们在过去的数十年里确实是这么做的。
Evgeni: And I would remind you that they have honored their side of the deal for decades now.

人群中，有人举起手来。
A callused hand rises up to break the silence.

克努特：咱们给芝诺卢恩矿石，他们给我们报酬——很简单，就这么回事。
Knut: We give them runium ore, and they supply us in return. It should be as simple as that.

克努特：几十年过去了，从我的爷爷辈开始，咱们一直都是这么合作的……
Knut: Always it has been this way, since my grandfather's time.

叶甫根尼：不再是了，克努特同志。
Evgeni: Times have changed, Comrade Knut.

叶甫根尼：从前，我们能够开采卢恩矿石，它们是最好的神秘学单兵作战载具的燃料，芝诺也愿意为它们付个好价钱。
Evgeni: In the old days, Zeno used to pay us generously for mining this runium, because our ore was necessary for their arcane combat vehicles.

叶甫根尼：但现在，这儿的卢恩矿石几乎开采殆尽了。我想，你应该比我更加清楚。
Evgeni: But now, we have nearly exhausted all our mines. You know this better than I do.

克努特：……
Knut: ...

克努特：那咱们就不能干点别的劳动吗？就像现在这样，咱们能够盖房子，甚至还能在培育好的土地上种蔬菜。
Knut: But isn't there some other work we can do? Already, we built our own houses, and now we even grow our own crops.

镇民Ⅰ：没错，我们能自给自足，为什么要向芝诺低头呢？
Resident I: He's right. Why must we work with Zeno if we could feed ourselves?

镇民Ⅱ：冷静点，同志们！叶甫根尼也只是为了来亚什基考虑——难道你们忘了那些令人头大的小怪物们吗？
Resident II: Comrades, calm yourselves! Evgeni is doing this for everybody's sake—have you forgotten about those little monsters?

镇民Ⅱ：那些参加了保卫队的伙计们，有哪个身上是没挂彩的……？
Resident II: Is there anyone left on our defense team that hasn't been injured fighting them?

台下一时噤声，叶甫根尼抓住了这个宝贵的时机。
The audience falls quiet. Evgeni seizes on their momentary pause.

叶甫根尼：尼基塔同志是对的。
Evgeni: It is as Comrade Nikita said.

叶甫根尼：来亚什基周边的魔精愈发猖獗了，它们不仅占据了我们的大部分矿场，有些怪模怪样的家伙甚至窜进了镇子里。
Evgeni: The critters are running rampant these days. Not only have they occupied most of our mines, some have even found their way into the town.

叶甫根尼：仅仅靠着我们自己的保卫队，你们真的觉得能保护好这里吗？还是说，你们宁愿为了一个“来亚什基”的虚名，就罔顾周围人的死活？
Evgeni: Do you really think we can protect our people with our small defense team? Don't you care about your neighbors' safety? Do you want to keep Rayashki an isolated town just to let it die?

维拉：来亚什基并不只是一个虚名，叶甫根尼。
Vila: Rayashki is more than an isolated town, Evgeni.

维拉：你我都知道它代表着什么。
Vila: And we all know that.

叶甫根尼：现实摆在你我眼前，现在不是谈理想的时候了。
Evgeni: But this is the reality we all must face now.

维拉脸上的鳞片微微起伏着，她盯着叶甫根尼，半步也不肯退让。
The scales on Vila's face rise involuntarily. She holds her stare.

工人，厨师，保卫队人员……越来越多的人们加入了辩论。
Workers, cooks, security personnel ... Soon, all of Rayashki has joined in.

克努特：叶甫根尼同志，把那些高高在上的老爷们找来是你一个人的决定，你根本没有向大伙征求过意见，不是吗？
Knut: Comrade Evgeni. It was your idea to turn to these Zeno big guys for help. But you never even asked what we think, did you?

克努特：你得理解大伙的抵触情绪……
Knut: So you can't blame us for disagreeing now.

叶甫根尼：我是为了你们好。
Evgeni: I'm doing this for your good.

斩钉截铁的话语显然没能缓和争执。
His assurances did not seem to have much impact on the crowd.

遗憾的是，紧接而至的一阵寒风也无能为力。
A cold wind passes across the square.

维拉：我们能顾好自己——
Vila: We can take care of ourself- ...

她还想再说些什么，一阵浓郁的冰冷气息覆盖上了她脖颈的鳞片。
She has more to say, but as she moves to speak, her scales stand on edge and shiver audibly.

比起制止争端，寒风显然预示着某种更紧迫的危险。
She holds her hand up, signaling to the crowd. There is a scent on the wind—danger is near.

收镜
震屏

？？？：吼吼——！
???: *roars*

几头毛发耸立的魔精突兀地窜进了广场。
A horde of hairy critters burst into the square.

维拉：大家小心——！
Vila: Everyone, watch out!

她转过身，抄起一旁的木椅迎了上去。
She picks up a wooden chair to fend them off.

叶甫根尼：保卫队成员，全员备战！
Evgeni: Defense team!

保卫队员Ⅰ：明白！
Guard I: On it!

？？？：呜……
???: *wails*

长相古怪的魔精落荒而逃。
The critters flee in a panic.

值得庆幸的是，它们至少为制止争端贡献了一份必要的力量。
If nothing else, the attack served to bring the town together again.

叶甫根尼：向你的敏锐嗅觉致敬，维拉同志。你避免了更多的伤亡。
Evgeni: I salute your sense of smell, Comrade Vila. We could have suffered much more severe consequences without your forewarning.

握手，敬礼，像是一切都没有发生过。
Handshakes and salutes are shared, their dispute now absent from anyone's mind.

维拉：这没什么，只是……应对危险的一种天赋的应激反应。
Vila: Think nothing of it. It's just a reflex reaction when there is danger nearby.

她摸了摸手腕，不着痕迹地将凸起的神经按了下去。
She touches her scales, pressing them down until they settle.

叶甫根尼：但这正说明我们需要芝诺的协助——
Evgeni: But this incursion has proved my point. We need Zeno's help.

叶甫根尼：其他人并不具备像你这样的“种族天赋”，他们更容易遇上难以预料的危险，不是么？
Evgeni: The other townspeople are not gifted with your set of talents. We are all vulnerable to the growing dangers, wouldn't you agree?

叶甫根尼：我希望你能更多考虑普通人的处境。
Evgeni: I only ask you to put yourself in their shoes.

他的声音不大，却依然凌厉地刺入维拉的耳中。
He speaks softly, evenly, but even so, the words land like a heavy blow.

维拉：……我接受你的批评，叶甫根尼同志。
Vila: Your criticism is valid and well-accepted, Comrade Evgeni.

维拉：但我必须申明，芝诺对来亚什基的维和行动必须迅速完成。更重要的是，我想这儿的人都不会同意芝诺对我们指手画脚。
Vila: Perhaps I could agree with your plan. Provided Zeno's presence is a temporary one. We just don't want them to change things for us here.

广场的气氛终于缓和了下来。
The atmosphere in the square moves from joyful to serious, as the meaning of their words takes hold.

叶甫根尼：很高兴你们能想通这一点。
Evgeni: I'm glad that you have finally come to realize what is best for us.

叶甫根尼：芝诺是一个严谨而理性的机构，他们致力于维护世界各地的和平。我相信，他们会做出正确的决断。
Evgeni: Zeno is known for their rigorous methods and rational decision-making, and they are committed to maintaining peace around the world. I'm sure they will make the right decision.

叶甫根尼：正如他们与来亚什基过往的无数次合作。我们解决了芝诺的能源问题，成了他们坚固的资源保障。而芝诺，则在第一线解决了许多国际问题。
Evgeni: They trusted us to supply their ore, and we have faithfully played our part in supporting them. Thanks to our help, Zeno has successfully tackled many international issues.

叶甫根尼：来亚什基与芝诺共同努力，为了更美好的世界而拼搏——
Evgeni: It has always been them and us together, fighting for a better world.

克努特：哈哈～
这话说得没错，我们都该为之骄傲——！
Knut: Hahaha! When he puts it that way, he's right. We should be proud of our cooperation!

四周终于产生了一些刻意压低的、自豪的笑声。
Even without a punchline, Knut's deep belly laugh breaks the tension.

叶甫根尼：在这之前，我们理应向芝诺表达敬意。我宣布，排练继续……
Evgeni: Therefore, we will show our appreciation to Zeno for the contributions they've made to the world with our help. Now, let's continue our rehearsals.

吵吵嚷嚷的声音终于停了下来，眼尖的孩子四处张望，终于发现了不对劲。
As the adults return to their duties, a sharp-eyed child notices that someone is missing.

帕索诺：你们瞧，阿夫西维不见啦！
Pasono: Have you seen Avgust? I can't find him!

维拉：嗯——？！
Vila: Hmm?!

尼娜：咦，阿夫西维同学去做什么啦？
Nina: Strange, where did he go?

彼得森：哼，说不定是去偷吃阿廖卡了……违反规矩，自顾自地干自己的事，他最擅长的就是这个！
Pyotr: Hmph, looking for any Alenka left in the cupboards, I'd bet! He's always breaking the rules doing whatever he wants.

尼娜：我们不应该贬低他人，彼得森同学！阿夫西维同学也是我们的一份子……
Nina: We shouldn't talk badly about our classmate, Pyotr! He's one of us.

彼得森沉默着把头低了下去。许久，他才发出比小棕熊还细微的声音。
Pyotr lowers his head, his face crumpling, until at last, he lets out a grumble fit for a bear.

彼得森：对不起……我只是想让大家都做好自己的事。
Pyotr: *sighs* Yes, you're right. I just want everyone to do their best, even him.

维拉：别担心，孩子们，大人们会找到他的。
Vila: Don't worry, kids. We will find him.

维拉拍了拍小姑娘的肩膀。
Vila pats Nina's shoulder softly.

维拉：我们的孩子失踪了，叶甫根尼同志，我要求暂停排练。
Vila: A child is missing, Comrade Evgeni. I suggest a temporary suspension of our rehearsals.

叶甫根尼哼了一声，像是想起了什么。
Evgeni murmurs a half-response, until he catches the weight of her words.

叶甫根尼：又是那个古怪的孩子，这已经不是他第一次偷溜了……
Evgeni: Urgh, it must be that strange kid again! He is always sneaking away like this.

叶甫根尼毫不客气地皱了皱眉，他还想再说些什么，却迎上一双更加坚决的眼睛。
Avgust has been no small trouble in the past. Evgeni frowns, but Vila's determined glare tells him "No" is not an acceptable answer.

维拉：他在填补自己的世界。
Vila: He is only trying to understand the world in his own way.

叶甫根尼：……
Evgeni: ...

FR-02 大发现！ / Big Discoveries!

小镇广场（童话一面）
The question of where their curious little dreamer has disappeared soon becomes a true conundrum,

关心石头的孩子去了哪儿呢？
码头，邮站，电话亭……反正，不在这儿。

逐渐黑屏+窸窸窣窣的嗅闻声
as their search through the dockyard, the post office, and even the town phone booth reveals no trace of him.

他为自己赋予了更重要的迎新任务。
This is, of course, because he has assigned himself a more critical mission: welcoming newcomers.

它伴随着艰难、遥远，以及绵延了一路的向日葵。
A difficult task, especially when it leads him so far away. But he is not alone. His sunflower hops along with him.

阿夫西维：维拉说，向日葵很温暖，是所有人的朋友。
Avgust: Vila once said that sunflowers mean warmth, and that makes them everyone's friends.

阿夫西维：它们热情地欢迎所有客人。
Avgust: They would warmly welcome every guest that comes to town.

阿夫西维：就像我最好的朋友一样，对吗？
Avgust: Just like my best friend here, right?

他扬了扬手上的向日葵，附在对方叶片上小声嘀咕。
He raises the sunflower in his hand and whispers softly to its petals.

阿夫西维：好朋友，每个人都应该有一个好朋友。
Avgust: Best friends ... Everyone should have a best friend.

而后，他捧起吊坠。
He then picks up the pendant.

一阵古怪的嘟哝后，吊坠散发出幽微的光芒。
Following his whispers, the pendant emits a faint glow.

向日葵膨胀、夸张地长大

阿夫西维：♪～♬～～
Avgust: ♪ ... ♬ ...

阿夫西维：好了——现在这儿有大朋友、小朋友……很多很多朋友！
Avgust: Alright! Now here are big friends, small friends, many, many friends!

阿夫西维：这样新来的客人就不会孤单了～
Avgust: So that our new guests won't feel so lonely when they come!

稚嫩的脚印继续向前绵延着，印在更模糊的雪地靴的印子上。
The small footprints continue forward through the snow, imprinting over older, larger steps.

他终于赶上了他的新朋友。
He has nearly caught up with Rayashki's newest guest.

特写

？？？：天呐——！我还是第一次见到异化程度如此之高的伊吉拉格【Ijiraq】。
???: Amazing! I've never seen such a highly mutated Ijiraq before.

？？？：如果不是镇上的人都凑到一块儿，像这样优秀的研究素材就只能白白地流失了。
???: I would have missed these precious research opportunities if there weren't a gathering in the town.

北方哨歌：北方哨歌，看来上天还没有完全遗弃你和你的理论……
Windsong: Windsong, seems like life has been good to you and your theory.

她目不转睛地盯着眼前的那群野兽，刷刷地写着，连嘴巴也不肯闲下来。
She stares intently at the beasts in front of her, her written notes hardly keeping pace with her whispered observations.

北方哨歌：看来地脉能量的紊乱不仅体现在卢恩矿石的枯竭，甚至还给这儿的魔精们都打上了几针不同程度的异变剂。
Windsong: The disorder in ley energy here has not only caused the exhaustion of the runium mines, but has also mutated local critters to varying degrees.

北方哨歌：……
Windsong: ...

北方哨歌：芝诺的猜测是对的，难怪他们派遣了那么多学者到这儿来寻找异象，甚至连不知道打哪儿来的乡野学者都不放过。
Windsong: Then Zeno was right. No wonder they have sent so many researchers here to look for abnormalities, even the crank ones like me.

北方哨歌：很显然，这座镇子的古怪之处远远不止那些过分活跃的常规魔精们……
Windsong: It's obvious that this town has more to it than a handful of overly active critters.

北方哨歌：可他们又对这些古怪的魔精变异种兴趣缺缺……
Windsong: But they don't seem especially interested in the mutant ones either.

北方哨歌：芝诺到底想要什么呢……？
Windsong: Zeno, what were you looking for here?

阿夫西维：嘿嘿～
Avgust: *happy chuckles*

北方哨歌：——！
Windsong: ...!

腿上传来的剧烈摩擦打断了她的自言自语。
A sudden movement passing under her coat brings her out of her monologue.

“噗——”
*flop*

北方哨歌：……嗯？！
Windsong: Mmm?!

画面震动+摔倒声

北方哨歌：喂——快放开，别拽着我的腿！
Windsong: Hey! Let go! Let go of my leg!

阿夫西维：嗅嗅——
Avgust: *sniffs*

阿夫西维：真奇怪……你不是狐狸，也不是貂鼠……
Avgust: Strange! You're not a fox, and you're not a sable.

突然出现的孩子显然让忙于观察的学者慌了神。
The appearance of this unknown child brings, at first, confusion, followed swiftly by panic.

北方哨歌：嘿——！小子，你在干什么？！
Windsong: Hey! Kid, what are you doing?!

她终于站起身来，卷起一阵稀稀拉拉的雪花。
She picks herself up, dusting off a small flurry of snowflakes.

这儿的响动显然惊吓了不止北方哨歌一人。
Unfortunately, Windsong is not the only one startled by the child.

伊吉拉格：吱#￥&%……！
Ijiraq: *roars*

北方哨歌：糟了，尽管伊吉拉格生性温良，但从来没人说过它们的变异种朋友也这么好说话……
Windsong: Oh, shoot. Ijiraqs are usually known for their good temper. It seems to not apply to their mutant kin.

一双嶙峋的鹿角对准了北方哨歌。
Rugged antlers aim squarely at the researcher.

它们目不转睛地盯着眼前的不速之客，鼻端扑腾着粗壮的喘息。
The creature's nose puffs with each aggravated breath.

北方哨歌：……好吧。
Windsong: Fine.

脚
手

北方哨歌：Природа это числа и черты.
Windsong: Природа это числа и черты.

理线学施法特效
特写1
特写2
特写3
震屏

阿夫西维：咦……
Avgust: Umm?

阿夫西维：你在这儿搭积木吗——？！
Avgust: Are you building blocks here?!

伊吉拉格：吱吱——！
Ijiraq: *roars*

受惊的伊吉拉格迅速地逃窜了。
The startled Ijiraq runs off into the distance.

北方哨歌：呼……至少这位与众不同的家伙还保留着种族遗传的畏暗习性……
Windsong: Phew! Lucky for us, it seems to still be afraid of the dark, like the rest of its kind.

北方哨歌：终于结束了……
Windsong: It's finally over.

她突然想起了什么。
Her satisfaction fades as she takes stock of her surroundings.

北方哨歌：嘿，我的素材——！
Windsong: Oh! My materials!

阿夫西维：你做得很好～
Avgust: Wow! You are the most "most"!

稚嫩的手努力攀高着，拍了拍学者僵在原地的手。
His little hands struggle to reach any higher. He pats the freezing hand of the researcher.

阿夫西维：你赶走了坏蛋，保护了大家。
Avgust: You drove away all the bad critters and protected everyone!

阿夫西维：你瞧，舞台上的天鹅们、工厂的大铁炉，还有睡在矿洞里的爸爸和其他人们……他们都会高兴的。
Avgust: The swans on the stage, the big burning furnaces in the factory, and even the uncles sleeping in the mine with Papa ... I think they would all give you a big thumbs-up!

北方哨歌：……？
Windsong: ...?

她叹了口气，终于接受了这位不速之客出现的事实。
She sighs, resigned that she must now deal with her uninvited guest.

或者说，她才是那位不受人欢迎的不速之客。
Though, in fact, she is the one here uninvited.

北方哨歌：咳咳，你可以叫我北方哨歌。
Windsong: Ahem, you can call me Windsong.

北方哨歌：事先声明，我可不是什么窃取机密的怪人，只是个借住在这儿的游客。
Windsong: Just to be clear, I'm not a spy, kid. I'm just a traveler staying in town for the moment.

她随意扬了扬手上的证件，上面画着阿夫西维最熟悉的向日葵图案。
She casually raises an identification card in her hand, a card adorned with a familiar sunflower pattern.

阿夫西维：噢……可我从来没见过你！
Avgust: Oh! But I have never seen you before!

阿夫西维：你住在水里吗？……就像维拉那样。
Avgust: Do you also like to rest in the water? Like Vila?

阿夫西维：——你也有一条漂亮的蓝色尾巴吗？
Avgust: Do you also have a beautiful blue tail?

过于跳脱的思维显然令她难以招架，她费力制止了那个围着她打转的身影。
His strange questions prove difficult to parse, even one at a time, but the little boy circles around her, unleashing more in salvo after salvo.

北方哨歌：虽然我不明白你说的是什么，但毫无疑问，小家伙，我绝对不是你想象中的那种身份。
Windsong: I have no idea what you're talking about, but I'm certain that I'm not what you think I am, little fellow.

北方哨歌：我是个……咳，学者。当投身研究时，我们在大多数时候都深入简出，在谁也找不着的地方，你明白了吗？
Windsong: I am a researcher. We often stay in quiet corners when we work on a project, so you won't see us often. Understand?

阿夫西维：学者……是电视上的那些人吗——
Avgust: Researchers? Like those people on TV?

阿夫西维：他们站在很高的台子上，抱着鲜花，说很多很多的话，然后流下眼泪——每个人都能得到一个漂亮的金色奖章。
Avgust: I saw them stand on a tall tall stage, with flowers in their arms. They spoke a lot and cried, and then they were given a shiny medal.

阿夫西维：维拉说，它们是给最聪明的人的奖励。
Avgust: Vila said the medals were to praise them for being very clever.

阿夫西维：我能看看你的奖章吗……？
Avgust: Can I see your medal?

北方哨歌：……
Windsong: ...

孩子的问题总是一针见血。北方哨歌的面庞不自然地抽动着。
This last salvo penetrated deep. Windsong's face twitches unnaturally.

北方哨歌：哈哈——你身上的水晶可真漂亮，它看起来可比那些矿车上的纯粹多了。
Windsong: Haha. Oh! The crystal on you looks stunning. It looks purer than those in the mine carts.

她的目光上下飘忽，终于抓住了那颗挂在脖子上的漂亮水晶。
Her gaze centered on it, a beautiful crystal hanging on the boy's neck. A chance possibly to stop his barrage of questions.

阿夫西维：当然，这是爸爸留给我的。
Avgust: Of course. Papa gave it to me.

小小的胸膛骄傲地鼓了起来。
His small chest swells with pride.

北方哨歌：它很珍贵，也很危险……比它更纯粹的，大概只有传说中的卢恩原矿了。对那些战争机器来说，它们是惹人垂涎的战略资源。
Windsong: It is precious, but also very dangerous. A crystal like this is almost as volatile as undiluted runium ore. They use this stuff for war machines!

北方哨歌：孩子，你得收好它，别让陌生人看见了，然后赶紧回家去，好吗？
Windsong: Kid, listen to me, put that away. Go home now, and don't let anyone see it. Understand?

北方哨歌：对于可怕的魔精来说，它们激发的大概就是最原始的食欲了……
Windsong: It could stimulate the critters' appetite!

阿夫西维：呜哇——！
Avgust: Ah!

北方哨歌满意地点了点头。
Windsong nods with satisfaction, eager to see him leave.

但显然，孩子的好奇心并没有就此消失，那株向日葵又一次轻轻碰了碰她的手臂。
Unfortunately, the sunflower gently brushes up against her arm once more.

阿夫西维：你能盖一个很高很高的房顶吗？把整个小镇都保护起来——就像刚才搭起积木那样！
Avgust: Can you build a very, very tall wall? One that can protect the whole town? Like what you did with the blocks?

北方哨歌：我很抱歉，小家伙……
Windsong: I'm sorry, little fellow.

她指了指那片空荡荡的雪地。
She points to the now-empty patch of snow-covered ground.

北方哨歌：这只是个小把戏，过一会儿就不见了……
Windsong: That was just a trick. It won't last long.

阿夫西维：不，这是个了不起的成就。
Avgust: No, that was amazing!

阿夫西维：尼娜，克努特，维拉——所有人都应该向你学习！
Avgust: Nina, Knut, Vila—everyone should learn from you!

阿夫西维：我也能像你一样，让土地和石头们乖乖听话——做出这些了不起的成就吗？
Avgust: Could I make the dirt and stones listen to me like you did one day? Will I be great like you?

北方哨歌：……
Windsong: ...

北方哨歌：像你这样神神叨叨的孩子，更应该出现在新纪元运动的宝瓶座年代，或是什么冥思团体之类的地方。
Windsong: A strange kid like you should live in the Age of Aquarius and be a part of the New Age Movement, or become some kind of Yogi doing meditation.

北方哨歌：而不是这儿……
Windsong: And do it anywhere but here.

阿夫西维：新纪元运动——是什么？！
Avgust: The New Age Movement? What is that?!

阿夫西维并没有捕捉到对方的无奈。更糟糕的是，他对此产生了更高的兴致。
Her helpless attempt at turning him away goes without notice; worse still, it seems to intrigue him.

阿夫西维：你是从那儿来的吗？
Avgust: Is that where you're from?

北方哨歌：它是一场盛大的风潮，里面有很多有趣的东西。卢恩水晶、新兴学派、无数天马行空的想法……
Windsong: It's not a place. It's a spirit of a time. Full of interesting things—like crystals, new schools of thought, many crazy and creative ideas.

阿夫西维：他们那儿的太阳会闭眼吗？乌云们会吐口水吗？
Avgust: Will the sun close its eyes? Will the dark clouds spit on people?

阿夫西维：大船会在水底下吐泡泡吗……？
Avgust: Will their ships blow bubbles under the water?

孩子不依不饶的纠缠并不使人厌烦。
Somehow, the persistent questions stop being a source of annoyance.

细微的、童稚的温暖拨开了某种尘封已久的乌云。
The subtle warmth of his boundless wonder shakes loose the frost from her heart.

她放弃了早已准备好的熟稔套话与敷衍说辞。
Her smile turning from feigned to genuine.

北方哨歌：当然……他们甚至坚信脚下的世界是一张巨幅图纸，并立志画出上面的一切。
Windsong: Of course! They even believe that the world is a giant piece of blank paper, and they are the artists drawing on it.

北方哨歌：不仅如此，他们着迷于各种稀奇古怪的问题，索尔兹伯里平原的石头们是从哪儿来的？马尾藻海的船只与飞机又去了哪儿……
Windsong: And not only that, they are obsessed with bizarre ideas. Where did the Stonehenge on the Salisbury Plain come from? Where are the ships and planes which traveled past the Sargasso Sea now?

阿夫西维：我喜欢他们——！
Avgust: I like them!

稚嫩的童声似乎模糊了回忆与现实的边缘，某些隐晦的遐想从记忆里漂浮了上来，令人一阵目眩神迷。
The child's voice blurs the edges between reality and pleasant memories of her past, to a time when there were others that thought like her.

北方哨歌：他们自称为理线师，来自于某个曾经显赫一时的学派……但许多人并不喜欢理线师，也不喜欢他们口中的图纸与答案。
Windsong: They called themselves ley hunters, the apprentices of a once-renowned school of thought. However, few people in academic circles accepted the idea of ley lines as an answer to their questions.

北方哨歌：对理线师来说，他们度过了一个漫长的夜晚。
Windsong: So for these ley hunters, it has been a long walk through a dark night.

阿夫西维：那他们可以到来亚什基来，太阳先生一直住在大家的头顶上！
Avgust: Then they can come to Rayashki! Here, the sun never sets! Half the year, anyways.

阿夫西维：我可以和他们做朋友……等我长大了，我也能成为一位理线师！
Avgust: Then I can be their friend! And when I grow up, I will be a ley hunter too!

北方哨歌紧了紧身上的围巾，像是在抵御某种寒意。
Windsong tightens her scarf, as if warding off a chill.

北方哨歌：恐怕已经来不及了，小家伙。
Windsong: I'm afraid it's a bit too late, little fellow.

北方哨歌：许多人都放弃了，放弃了对未解之谜的解释，放弃了图纸上的直线与曲线……当然也放弃了理线学。
Windsong: Most have already given up. They lost interest in solving the mysteries and lost their faith in finding the curves and the lines. So the study of ley lines has been all but abandoned.

北方哨歌：现在理线学就剩下一根可怜的独苗了。
Windsong: There's only one fool left that hasn't given it up.

北方哨歌说得入神，丝毫没有注意到吱嘎响起的脚步声。
She speaks wistfully, entranced in that daze of memory, oblivious to the nearing sound of footsteps behind her.

阿夫西维：嘘～～～
Avgust: Shhh!

北方哨歌：——？
Windsong: ...?

维拉：你就是那根仅剩的独苗么？——这位我从来没见过的女士。
Vila: And you, I suppose, are this "only one fool," yes?

她拉过藏在一边的阿夫西维，责备地揉了揉孩子的脑袋。
Vila pulls Avgust toward her protectively and reproaches him with a ruffle of the child's hair.

北方哨歌：我必须申明，女士，我绝对没有任何诱拐儿童的想法！
Windsong: Ah! Please, ma'am, believe me, I am not a child abductor!

维拉：嗯……
Vila: Well ...

对方不置可否地点了点头。
Windsong offers a pained gesture towards the boy.

维拉：我想，这儿算不上什么接待客人的好地方。对于新来的朋友，我们有更合适的安排。
Vila: I think this isn't a good place to receive our guest. We have much more appropriate arrangements for new friends.

维拉：不过——
Vila: But ...

维拉：倘若是行为可疑的破坏分子，我们也有另外的处理方式。
Vila: If our guest has any ill intentions, we will retaliate.

北方哨歌：……
Windsong: Umm.

FR-03 羽茅地 / Needle-Grass

小镇广场（现实一面）

各怀心思的一行人回到了小镇。
The group, each harboring their own thoughts, returns toward the small town. Vila and Avgust humming out a sing-song tune.

惴惴不安的北方哨歌沉默了一路。
And anxious Windsong remains silent for the journey.

恍惚之际，走在前面的维拉与她似有若无的歌声一同回过头来。
Vila wheels around just as they arrive at the outskirts, keeping up the cadence of the song.

维拉：我们到了。
Vila: We're here.

维拉：向你的热心肠表示感谢，女士。
Vila: Thank you for taking care of our little Comrade Avgust, miss.

北方哨歌：……？
Windsong: ...?

北方哨歌：——不是来审判我或者给我定罪之类的？
Windsong: You mean I'm not here to be questioned? Or arrested?

维拉：呵呵～当然不是。
Vila: *chuckles* Of course not.

维拉：对一切已发生或尚未发生的事情保持乐观与好奇，大概是这儿人们的通病。
Vila: Perhaps we are a little too optimistic, but when we meet a stranger, we prefer to welcome them.

维拉仔细地观察起眼前略显窘迫的身影，值得庆幸的是，她的好奇心并未等待太久。
Vila looks over the awkward figure, reading the expression on her face. The researcher breaks the silence with a stumble.

北方哨歌：北方哨歌。
Windsong: Oh, well, I'm Windsong.

维拉：很特别的名字，听起来——你是从那边来的？
Vila: That's a very unique name. And where is it you come from?

北方哨歌：那边……？算是吧，我来自德涅斯特河的东岸……
Windsong: From the east side of the Dniester River.

她还想再说些什么，微微咸涩的海风挟着脖颈上的细腻鳞片便一同凑到了她的跟前。
Vila's scales are hit with a sea breeze. It halts her and their conversation.

维拉：……
Vila: *sniffs*

北方哨歌：——？！
Windsong: ...?!

许久，对方终于抬起头来。
The teacher breaks out from her pause.

维拉：无意冒犯，女士。你的身上混杂着许多我从未闻到过的气息。
Vila: No offense, Ms. But you have a complicated and unfamiliar scent about you.

维拉：它们有的像坚硬的石头，有的又像海岸线上的灯塔、潮热的雨水……但至少，我没有从中闻到丝毫敌意。
Vila: The smell of hard rocks, a lighthouse by the sea, rainwater in a humid summer. Mm. Nothing hostile, though.

北方哨歌：呵呵……无根漂泊者大都如此。
Windsong: *chuckles* I think most rootless travelers like me smell like that.

维拉：欢迎你到来亚什基来，北方哨歌女士。
Vila: Welcome to Rayashki, Ms. Windsong.

维拉认真地敬了个礼。
Vila motions inward to the town.

北方哨歌：……谢谢。
Windsong: Thank you.

北方哨歌：我理解你们的警惕，但……
Windsong: I understand your caution. But ...

北方哨歌同样狐疑地打量着对方。
Windsong is seized by her own suspicion, spying the unusual scales on her host's neck.

维拉不动声色地扯紧袖口，缩了缩脖子，稍微向后退了几步。
Vila catches the glance. She subtly tugs at her sleeve and shrinks her neck into her coat, taking a few cautious steps backward.

维拉：别担心，这并不是恶性疾病，只是些无足轻重的小事。
Vila: You have nothing to worry about; it's not a disease.

维拉：我们还是来聊聊你的故事吧……
听你的说法，你是一位研究学者。
Vila: Anyway, let's talk about you. I heard that you're a researcher.

维拉：不久前，这儿曾涌入过许多学者和探险家们，他们流连于小镇的各个角落，就像现在的你。我以为他们受到了来亚什基的吸引……
Vila: Not long ago, many of your peers visited here. They wandered around and looked under every rock and floorboard in the town, like you do. I thought perhaps they were attracted here by the town itself.

维拉：但令人遗憾的是，没过多久，他们便一个接一个地，揣着失望离开了。
Vila: But regrettably, not long after, they left one after another in disappointment.

维拉：当然，我也很失望。
Vila: I was disappointed, too.

她的语气并不像自己所说的那般失落，更多的是好奇。
There is a curiousness in her tone.

维拉：你会和他们一样吗？
Vila: Will you be like them?

北方哨歌：哈哈……
Windsong: Haha.

北方哨歌：他们大多是声名在外的学者，自然不会对着一个看不见方向的研究投注过久的目光。但我……早已习惯了失败。
Windsong: Those people are famous scholars; of course, they won't spend too much time on a project with unclear prospects. But I, I'm used to those.

她摊了摊手，没有继续说下去。
She spreads her hands out to the town, with nothing more to say.

维拉：为你无畏的探索精神——致敬。
Vila: I salute you for your courage and spirit of exploration.

北方哨歌：我以为你的态度会更恶劣一点儿……像是“你们凭什么染指这儿，这是小镇的私有财产”……
Windsong: I thought you ... I thought you might be more hostile to me. Shouting things like "Who do you think you are to prowl about on our private property!"

维拉：……？
Vila: ...?

北方哨歌：外面的人都觉得理线学是羽茅，在西伯利亚的土壤中遍地都是的那一种，不仅毫不起眼，缺乏营养，更是惹人厌烦，最大的用途是抢夺属于它们的营养。
Windsong: Many see the study of ley lines like finding a needle in the grass of a Siberian field—wasted effort with negligible results.

维拉：劳动并无高低贵贱之分。
Vila: There's no such thing as meaningless work.

维拉：不论是什么身份，来自何方，也不论你投身于何种事业，都能在这儿发光发热。
Vila: It doesn't matter who you are, where you're from, or what you do. You will find your purpose here.

维拉的目光投向不远处被其他孩子们围在中间的阿夫西维。
Vila shifts her gaze over to Avgust, who has been found and surrounded by the other children not far away.

北方哨歌：难怪这儿能有阿夫西维这样……特别的孩子。
Windsong: Is that so? No wonder how you have such an unusual student like Avgust.

维拉：你也没有破坏这样的一颗童心，不是么？
Vila: All that childhood wonder, innocence—somehow you've preserved it in him, haven't you?

一旁的孩子显然并不关心成年人之间的问候，他们有着独属于孩子们的世界与规则。
The children seem unconcerned with the new adult; they have their own world and their own rules to be addressed.

阿夫西维：……我们的表演结束了吗？
Avgust: Is the show finished?

尼娜：排练暂时中止了，阿夫西维同学……叶甫根尼先生刚才气冲冲地离开了。
Nina: We cancelled our rehearsal, Avgust. Mr. Evgeni just left red-faced.

彼得森：是啊——！多亏了你的叛逃，临走之前，他取消了食堂菜单上的奶酪。
Pyotr: Yes! And he canceled the "Friendship" cheese on the food menu, all thanks to you.

阿夫西维：可我在欢迎新朋友呀～
Avgust: But I was welcoming our new friend!

彼得森：你害得我们失去了宝贵的“友谊”……这全是你的错，阿夫西维。
Pyotr: And we have lost our cheese because of you. This is all your fault!

彼得森：你是来亚什基最调皮的孩子！
Pyotr: You're the most bothersome kid in Rayashki!

阿夫西维：我知道，“最”是很好的意思！——谢谢你的夸奖，彼得森。
Avgust: I know that word! "Most" means the best! So thank you, Pyotr.

彼得森：你——！
Pyotr: You!

其他的孩子们也凑了上来。
The other children gather close.

帕索诺：阿夫西维同学，我们都没有见过这位新朋友，你该不会又在骗人吧？
Pasono: Avgust, we don't see anyone new here. You're not lying again, are you?

阿夫西维：她在维拉的身边，她们打招呼，分享脚印，一起唱歌……
Avgust: She's with Vila! They greet each other, share footprints, and even sing together.

阿夫西维：北方哨歌也是“最”，她画出很多线条，在雪地上、海鸥的身上——
Avgust: Windsong is also the "best"! She can draw many lines on the snow, and even on a seagull.

彼得森：……
Pyotr: ...

彼得森：她该不会和你一样奇怪吧？
Pyotr: We're not having another freak in town, right?

尼娜：是在黑板上画画吗？就像维拉老师那样。
Nina: Do you mean drawing on the blackboard? Like Ms. Vila did?

阿夫西维故作神秘地摇了摇头。
Avgust playfully shakes his head, feigning an air of mystery.

阿夫西维：她捏好泥土，墙壁就竖了起来，再吹一口气，房子就建好了……
Avgust: She made the earth turn into a tall tall wall, and she blew her breath at it, and made a building appear.

阿夫西维：如果有许多理线师一起工作的话，大家就能把向日葵送到天上去！
Avgust: If we had enough ley hunters like her working together, we would be able to send sunflowers high into the sky!

彼得森：这听起来没什么稀奇的～工厂的每一个叔叔都擅长建房子。
Pyotr: Ah, that's not so tough! All the men in town know how to build stuff like that!

彼得森：等我们长大，我们也能学会使用锄头和铲子。
Pyotr: When we grow up, we will work like them, with hoes and shovels.

帕索诺：可那还要很久很久呢……
Pasono: But that will take ages.

尼娜：如果我们现在就学会了理线师的魔法……那我们就能帮大人们一起造房子了！
Nina: If we can learn how to build like the ley hunters, then we could help the adults right now!

彼得森：你们可别被阿夫西维骗了——！
Pyotr: Don't listen to Avgust!

孩子们热烈地讨论着，彼得森与他鼓起的脸颊一同被挤了出来。
The children discuss the notion animatedly. Pyotr finds himself squeezed out of their huddle.

他快步跑到大人们的跟前。
He puffs his cheeks and hurries over to the adults.

彼得森：向您问好，北方哨歌女士。
Pyotr: Greetings, Ms. Windsong.

北方哨歌：嗯……？
Windsong: Mm?

彼得森：您真的能把土地变成各种各样的形状，搭起高高的房子吗？
Pyotr: Is it true? Can you really shape the earth into different things and build things from it?

北方哨歌：……这是一种短暂起效的神秘术，它来自我所研究的学派，理线学。
Windsong: Not exactly. The things I build with my arcane skill have only a momentary effect. I can't use it that way. I learned it as a part of my research while studying ley lines.

其他的孩子们也拥上前来。
The other children join in.

尼娜：北方哨歌女士，阿夫西维说的都是真的吗？
Nina: Ms. Windsong, those things Avgust told us, are they true?

尼娜：闭眼的太阳，吐泡泡的乌云，还有能看清一切的图纸……
Nina: The sun that closes its eyes, the dark clouds that spit on people, and the lines that can reveal everything.

帕索诺：北方哨歌女士，您能像维拉老师一样，为我们讲课吗？
Pasono: Ms. Windsong, will you be our teacher, like Ms. Vila?

彼得森：您能拿出证据吗……？
Pyotr: Can you prove anything?

维拉：调皮鬼们，一个个来。
Vila: Kids. One question at a time.

越来越多的孩子们簇拥着北方哨歌，这显然令她措手不及。
The children surround Windsong, catching her off guard.

她略带歉意地望向维拉。
She looks apologetically at Vila.

北方哨歌：抱歉……维拉女士，我会向孩子们说明的。
Windsong: Sorry, Ms. Vila. I should explain it to them.

北方哨歌：这只是个被大众疏远的非正式学科……沿用世俗评价的说法，“依赖神秘学家视角的观测”、“结论与大众需求不符”……
Windsong: Mine is not a ... formal discipline. Many people believe that it "relies too much on the observations of arcanists" and "the conclusions aren't useful for the public."

北方哨歌：大概并不适合这个年纪的孩子们。
Windsong: So it is best that you kids do not study it.

她耸了耸肩，呼出的温热水汽在她的面庞前起落。
She shrugs her shoulders.

北方哨歌：我想，它仅仅适合像我这样的顽固分子的自娱自乐。
Windsong: A pursuit of passion, fit for only a very stubborn fool like me.

维拉：原来如此。
Vila: I see.

维拉会意地点了点头，她转过身去，面向一团热闹的云。
Vila nods in understanding.

维拉：当然可以，孩子们。
Vila: Then, you must show us all about it. Shouldn't she, kids?

维拉：北方哨歌女士很愿意为你们开展一堂特别的通识课。
Vila: I'm sure Ms. Windsong would be very happy to give us a special lesson about her studies.

北方哨歌：嗯……？！
Windsong: Huh?!

阿夫西维：太好啦——！
Avgust: Yay!

而后，这团云转眼便飘向了更远的地方。
Escaping this unasked-for obligation may prove more difficult than expected.

北方哨歌：维拉女士，你没听明白吗……？
Windsong: Ms. Vila! I thought I made myself clear!

维拉：你为自身热爱的事业付出了许多努力，不是么？
Vila: You have worked hard in this "pursuit of passion," haven't you?

北方哨歌：理线学是门“多余”的学问。
Windsong: Regardless, the study of ley lines is ... Well, it's useless.

北方哨歌轻拍着手中泛黄的笔记本，上面画满了密密麻麻的线条与笔记。
Windsong lightly taps her yellowed notebook filled with cryptic scribbles and notes.

维拉：多余……？
Vila: Useless?

北方哨歌：世界上早就有了相当完备的地理学。
Windsong: These kids should learn something like geography. It's a much more thorough and important field.

北方哨歌：无论是人们，还是其他的学术机构，他们并不需要一个看上去和它差不多的，立足于更“狭隘”的神秘学视角的小众学科。
Windsong: As far as the general public and academic institutions are concerned, the study of ley lines is just a niche aspect of geography, worse still, one that is solely accessible to arcanists.

北方哨歌：瓜分研究经费，分流研究人员……大部分人都不乐意见到这样。
Windsong: To devote any real time to its investigation would take up valuable research funds and equally valuable researchers.

维拉：一种糟糕的学术倾轧。
Vila: At least that was how they felt about it.

维拉皱了皱眉头，用力踩实脚下的土壤。
Vila furrows her brow.

北方哨歌：……谁知道呢？
Windsong: Who can say for certain?

维拉：那么你呢，你也认为理线学是毫无意义的么？
Vila: What about you? Do you also think that the study of ley lines is a waste of funds and manpower?

北方哨歌：我——当然不……理线学并非一无是处。它能让人了解当地的神秘学现象，分析神秘动物，了解地表甚至是地壳中的秘密。
Windsong: I, of course, I don't. Through ley lines, we can detect arcanum-related events in the area, learn about local arcane creatures, and find the secrets hidden both above and below the earth's surface.

北方哨歌：只是……我目前还没法证明更多的事。
Windsong: But, I can't yet prove this to people.

维拉拍了拍北方哨歌的肩膀。
Vila places her hand on Windsong's shoulder.

维拉：那么，我们也一样。
Vila: Well, you don't have to prove it alone.

维拉：外界的承认与否并没有那么重要，能否发挥作用才是最重要的。
Vila: It doesn't matter what others think of your work. The only important thing is finding its uses.

北方哨歌：……
Windsong: ...

维拉：最早的时候，来亚什基仅仅是一个鲜为人知的偏远极区，人们为了同一个理想来到这儿。值得庆幸的是，我们在这儿发掘出了卢恩矿石。
Vila: At first, Rayashki was just a remote village far north in the Arctic Circle. People came here to share a dream of a better future. It was only by luck that we found the runium.

维拉：再后来，芝诺找到了我们，成了来亚什基的第一个合作者。
Vila: Then Zeno approached us and became our business partner.

维拉：这儿的人们为之奋斗六十余年，将它建设成了现在的样子。
Vila: For over 60 years, people here have worked together to make it what it is now.

维拉：我们为它创造了学校，创造了游泳馆、电影院……当然，这也是为了我们每一个人。
Vila: We built the school, the swimming pool, and the cinema ... For everyone.

维拉：来亚什基接纳也鼓舞着身处其中的每一个人……当然也包括你与理线学。
Vila: Rayashki embraces and takes in every newcomer. You and your studies are no exception.

维拉：我们殊途同归，不是么？
Vila: This is where our paths meet.

维拉亲切地笑了笑，像一阵暌违已久的暖风。
Vila smiles warmly. It hits like a warm sea breeze.

北方哨歌：……
Windsong: ...

一双掩藏起棘刺与棱角的手伸到了北方哨歌的面前。
A pair of hands, concealing sharp scales, extends toward Windsong.

维拉：我需要申明的是——
Vila: Please know that ...

维拉：这一邀请并不只是为了鼓励你，更是为了我们的未来。
Vila: I'm not just doing this for you. I'm doing this for a better future.

推镜

维拉望向不远处的孩子们，有人正认真地对着一株向日葵敬礼。
Vila glances at the children not far away. Some of them seem to be solemnly saluting a sunflower, as if it were a security team guard.

维拉：最优秀的科学家与劳动者们往往诞生于全科教育与通识教育并进的时代。
Vila: A well-rounded education is vital in bringing up the next generation of scientists and workers.

维拉：孩子们理应接受更丰富、更全面的知识，哪怕它并未受到广泛的认可。
Vila: Our children should learn more about this world, even from those perspectives and types of knowledge that aren't widely accepted.

北方哨歌会意地看了过去，她目光与阿夫西维撞在一起，后者兴奋地向她挥手。
Windsong looks out to them and meets the face of her unexpected friend. He waves back excitedly.

回

北方哨歌：感谢你的邀请，维拉女士。
Windsong: Thank you, Ms. Vila.

她回握住那只冰凉却格外热情的手。
She clasps her hand; it is colder than expected, but welcoming.

FR-04 园丁对花儿说 / Said the Gardener to Flowers

北方哨歌：理线学希望将世界变成一张简洁的图纸。
Windsong: The study of ley line sees the world as a clear map.

北方哨歌：在我们眼里，城市是一个个整齐的方格，大自然是许多条交叠的曲线。
Windsong: The cities look like squares to us, while natural landscapes appear to be curves overlapping one another.

北方哨歌：但世界上有许多奇怪的地方，比如发生大爆炸的通古斯、神秘的北纬30度……它们并不能被归入其中。
Windsong: Many bizarre places in the world, such as the location of the Tunguska explosion or the mysterious 30th Parallel North, can't be drawn in squares and curves like cities and ordinary landscapes.

北方哨歌：所以我们不得不将它们画出来。
Windsong: We need to find a way to indicate them,

北方哨歌：以更清晰的方式。
Windsong: in a clear, precise way.

阿夫西维：是迷宫！
Avgust: It's a maze!

北方哨歌：实际上，这是一张属于某座城市的地脉能量网。当然，你们也可以将它视为迷宫。
Windsong: Well, it is the ley line map of a city. But you are right. It does look like a maze.

北方哨歌：首先，我想给各位介绍理线学理论中最重要的概念——地脉能量。
Windsong: To begin with, I should introduce the most crucial concept in the study of ley lines—that of ley energy.

北方哨歌：这是一种特殊的能量形式，我们能从城市的任何地方观察到它的存在。它们从地底向上渗出、蒸腾，在一切生物与非生物之中富集。
Windsong: It is a special energy which we can easily detect throughout the town. See how it comes out from underneath the ground and goes into the local biosphere, circulating around like a system.

北方哨歌：如果将城市本身看作一张巨大的食物网，地脉能量则位于食物网的最底层。
Windsong: If we think of the town's ley lines as a food web, then ley energy lies at its foundation.

阿夫西维：大鱼吃小鱼，小鱼吃——更小的鱼！
Avgust: Like how big fish eat small fish, and small fish eat even smaller fish!

他抓住了这个更简洁的形容词。
The boy's comparative is simple but essentially correct.

北方哨歌：是的，它们是最小的“小鱼”，“大鱼”们吃掉它们，我们抓住“大鱼”，分析它们的鱼肉，从而找到别的“大鱼”们。
Windsong: Exactly. They are the smallest "fish" eaten by the "big fish." If we catch the "big fish" and study what they eat, we will know where to find the other "big fish."

北方哨歌：而后，地脉能量……咳，随着“大鱼”们的死亡与分解，“小鱼”回到原点，就像跃入一条永恒循环的长河。
Windsong: And the ley energy, I mean, when the "big fish" die and break down, the "small fish" will go back to where they first came from. The circulation goes on and on.

维拉：这是个很有趣的假说，北方哨歌女士。
Vila: You've put it very well, Ms. Windsong.

维拉：它正如我们所见的雨水、河流……从大海中来，也终将回到海洋。
Vila: Like the rainwater that comes from the ocean, to the rivers, and returns back to the ocean.

她的语气明显地兴奋了起来，连鳞片都微微张开。
Her tone rises, the scales along her neck unfurling slightly.

北方哨歌：你理解得很快。
Windsong: You are a quick learner.

北方哨歌：但与之不同的是，地脉能量的富集现象远比水源与小鱼要明显的多。当我们找到它的源头，我们便能借此发现它所流经的一切痕迹。
Windsong: But it is not exactly like water. The concentration of ley energy is far more noticeable than that of a lake or a school of fish. Once we find its densest spot, we will be able to trace it back to its source.

尼娜：那这些发亮的光点是什么呢……？
Nina: Then what are these bright spots?

北方哨歌：它们代表着地脉能量最丰裕的地方，也在某种程度上指引着地脉能量的流向。
Windsong: These are the energy-rich locations. In a way, they indicate the energy flow.

阿夫西维：比天上的星星更多——！
Avgust: So many, they look like stars in the sky!

北方哨歌：是的，确认地脉能量的富裕点是一份需要耗费许多时间与人力的工作。
Windsong: Yes, and finding these locations can be very costly in terms of time and manpower.

帕索诺：那……发现它们之后呢？
Pasono: Then, what do we do after finding them?

北方哨歌：它们是理线师们的“眼睛”。我们观察地脉能量的走向，分析地脉能量中富集的成分与痕迹，把它们与现实中存在的资源一一对应……
Windsong: They can "tell" us many things. The ley hunters will follow their courses, analyze the components in them, and match those components to each resource.

北方哨歌：那些无法确认来源的痕迹，便预示着我们尚未发现的新资源。
Windsong: Some of the components don't match with any of the known resources, which means there might be a new resource waiting to be discovered.

北方哨歌：当然，周边那些怪模怪样的魔精们，它们的痕迹与习性一定会在地脉能量中有所显示。
Windsong: Of course, from the ley energy, we can also learn about the local critters.

彼得森：您说的话与阿夫西维一样难懂！
Pyotr: You talk about strange things, almost like Avgust does!

不服气的孩子撅起嘴巴，他显然难以相信这一切。

在浮窗道具上的特效，一个个小光点在无规则地游荡
He pouts, finding all of this hard to believe.

彼得森：它们不就是些普通的线条吗？
Pyotr: These are just lines.

阿夫西维：蚯蚓们在跳舞，摇摇——摆摆——它们一定很快乐～
Avgust: Like dancing earthworms! They wriggle, they twist, they are having fun!

阿夫西维：它们跳到了水花上，跳到了四方格……最后跳回了小圆球里！
Avgust: Jumping on the waves, then into the little boxes, and back into the little balls!

彼得森：唉……这儿又多了一位“阿夫西维”。
Pyotr: *sighs* Great, we have two of them now.

收起浮窗
课室

尼娜：它们看上去很有趣，但我们不明白……
Nina: They look interesting, but we don't really understand.

但无论如何，理解一个新理论对孩子们而言过于复杂了，哪怕只是一张图纸。
Her theories are a bit too complex for children at this level, even with the aid of a drawing.

北方哨歌：别灰心，小家伙们……实际上，这只是个半成品。
Windsong: Cheer up, kids. It's not finished yet.

北方哨歌：绘制完整的地图是一项复杂的工作。它需要许多理线师们一同考察、分析环境，甚至需要深入城市禁区与危险的地方……
Windsong: Ley line cartography is complicated. It takes the efforts of many ley hunters working together, investigating the area, even braving dangerous and forbidden places.

北方哨歌：所以我们始终没能绘制出一张完整的地脉能量图。
Windsong: To this day, we've never been able to finish a completed ley energy map.

得到安慰的孩子们平静下来，但仍有人沉浸在线条的世界之中。
Their enthusiasm dims, but some remain immersed in the world of ley lines.

阿夫西维兴奋地扬起了那张并不完整的图纸。
Avgust raises up the incomplete drawing.

阿夫西维：我、我知道了！
Avgust: I know! I know it now!

阿夫西维：——这是我们的来亚什基！
Avgust: This is Rayashki!

维拉：……？
Vila: ...?

帕索诺：啊！原来如此——这儿是游泳场，那个方格是我们的广场，那些小圆球是我们的家！
Pasono: Ah! I see it too! And here is the swimming pool. That little square is our square. These little balls are our homes!

尼娜：我住在这儿，就在你左边的第三个圆球。
Nina: Oh! I live here, the third ball on the left of yours.

孩子此起彼伏地惊讶着，北方哨歌鼓起了掌。
The children react with surprise. Windsong applauds.

北方哨歌：你果然很敏锐，阿夫西维……这确实是来亚什基的地脉能量图。
Windsong: You're very bright, Avgust. This is the ley energy map of Rayashki.

尼娜：可是，北方哨歌老师，您为什么要画下我们的小镇呀？
Nina: But, Ms. Windsong, why are you mapping the energy of our town?

尼娜：难道这儿还有连我们也不知道的秘密吗……？
Nina: Have you found any secrets that we don't know?

北方哨歌：小家伙们，你们看到的只是它的表面，而地脉能量会告诉我们完整的答案。
Windsong: Children, right now, you can only see what's above the ground, but there is even more ley energy beneath the ground.

北方哨歌摇了摇头，像是回到了某种久违的过去，台下的人们认真地倾听着关于理线学的一切。
Windsong lowers her head, feeling momentarily transported back to a time long past, while her audience listens intently below.

北方哨歌：太阳会一直挂在天上吗？远处的冰山会消融吗？地底下又有多少秘密？
Windsong: Will the sun always be in the sky? Will the glaciers ever melt away? What lies in the darkness beneath us?

北方哨歌：小镇的周围是否又藏着你们从没见过的魔精，我们又应该如何应付它们呢？
Windsong: Are there other critters around here that you've never seen? How should we deal with them?

这一话题显然更能吸引孩子们的兴趣。
This topic sets off a clamor of excitement from the children.

帕索诺：我听说过——！学校的窗户上就出现过许多奇怪的脚印。
Pasono: I heard once that there were many strange footprints next to the school windows.

尼娜：食堂的帕特里基大叔也见过，那是一种长着六只脚的可怕怪物，腿上全是比锉刀更锋利的刺！
Nina: Uncle Patrik saw it! A monster with six legs, and each one has spikes!

北方哨歌：奇肯恩【Qiqirn】，一种小巧的犬科魔精，大多时候生存在寒冷的地方。
Windsong: That must be a Qiqirn, a small sized canidae critter, mostly seen in cold areas.

北方哨歌：当然，由于受地脉能量变化而导致的反季节情况的影响，它们确实出现在了这里，那条深蓝色的线条正是它的痕迹。
Windsong: But the ley energy might have affected the weather of their habitat, or they wouldn't be here in Rayashki in summer. The deep blue line here shows that particular one's movement.

彼得森：帕特里基大叔肯定是喝醉了……
Pyotr: Or maybe Uncle Patrik could have drunk too much.

北方哨歌：从它们体内所富集的地脉能量可以看出，它们主要的食物是雪地下的泥土与小虫，且常出没于离小镇更近的地方。
Windsong: The ley energy accumulated in them suggests that they mostly feed on moss and worms under the snow and stay near town.

北方哨歌：我们可以推断，这是一种温顺的草食性魔精，且对人类的行为相当好奇。如果你们见到了它，我想，喂食比驱赶要有用得多。
Windsong: We can infer that this is a docile, herbivorous kind of critter that is merely curious about human behavior. I think feeding them will be much more useful than driving them away.

收起浮窗
Vila nods thoughtfully.

维拉若有所思地点了点头。

维拉：自打小镇周边的魔精泛滥以来，保卫队就见到了许多从未见过的新怪物。尽管我能感受到些许它们的怪异，但我始终没能理解它们的差异……
Vila: Since these critters began to overrun the area, the defense team has encountered many new creatures. I can feel there's something strange about them, but I can't yet understand the differences.

维拉：你为我们提供了一个新鲜的视角，北方哨歌女士。我想，这或许能解决保卫队面临的许多难题。
Vila: You provided a different angle on the situation, Ms. Windsong. I believe it could help the defense team greatly.

新课题，新发现，大人们的，孩子们的，源源不断。
These new discoveries have provoked interest in the teacher and her students alike.

阿夫西维：炉子里的火熄灭了，蜜蜂和风筝在水池跳舞，围墙长出白色的苔藓……
Avgust: The fires in the furnaces are out, the bees and kites dance around the pond, white mosses on the wall.

阿夫西维：呜呜～天上的石头要砸下来了！
Avgust: Oh, oh! Stones will fall down from the sky!

北方哨歌：嗯……？！
Windsong: Huh?!

稚嫩而清晰的结论显然震惊了不止一人。
His bizarre yet ominous statements seem to upset the others.

彼得森：你在胡说些什么呢，阿夫西维！
Pyotr: Stop saying these strange things, Avgust!

彼得森：那些可怕的魔精只会乖乖地待在小镇的外面，保卫队会保护好大家！小镇里面是最安全的地方！
Pyotr: The defense team will keep the critters out of town and protect everyone!

彼得森：这儿更不会有什么石头砸下来——！
Pyotr: And there will not be any stones falling from the sky!

彼得森气鼓鼓地站了起来，拳头握得很紧。
Pyotr stands up, his fists clenched and face flush red.

阿夫西维：你难过吗……？彼得森。
Avgust: Is everything alright, Pyotr?

彼得森：它们……它们都是假的——来亚什基很安全，我们可以一直住在这儿！
Pyotr: You! You're lying! Rayashki is safe. It will be our home forever!

北方哨歌：我不想骗你，小家伙。但阿夫西维的说法并不完全是错的，我同样有类似的设想——
Windsong: I hate to tell you this, kid. But what Avgust just said could be right. I have the same feeling that ...

北方哨歌：像现在这样的好天气，大概持续不了太久了。
Windsong: The good weather here won't last too long.

她望向窗外，天灰蒙蒙的，像是蒙上了一层阴影。
She gazes outward. The sky above is gray and growing darker.

北方哨歌：瞧瞧那些灰白相间的粗线条～
Windsong: Look at those thick, gray lines.

北方哨歌：它们是云朵与水汽的痕迹。而现在，它们混成了一团。
Windsong: Those are the traces of cloud movements and moisture. Now, they're mingled together.

尼娜：可太阳一直都在呀……维拉老师说过，来亚什基的极昼还会持续很久呢～
Nina: But the sun will still be shining. Ms. Vila said that the polar day will last for a very, very long time!

北方哨歌：当然，历年的天气数据不会骗人。它告诉我们，在近期的几个月里，这儿的天气都不会有什么变化。
Windsong: Ms. Vila was right, and past statistics don't lie. According to the data, the weather here should continue for the next few months.

北方哨歌：可就理线学的推测来说，这儿的天气极其不稳定，随时可能转向更糟糕的状况。
Windsong: Yet the ley lines say otherwise. They say the weather will be extremely unpredictable.

彼得森：您在骗人——！
电视上的播报员说过，这几个月，来亚什基的天气都很凉爽。
Pyotr: You are making things up! The forecaster on TV said the weather in Rayashki will be temperate in the coming months.

北方哨歌：当然，官方给出的数据总是对的，但这并不绝对。
Windsong: And the weather forecaster was right according to his analysis, but life is full of surprises.

维拉：我能理解你的担忧，北方哨歌女士。我也感受到了周围冰山的轻微融化，它们似乎成为了更温暖的水流，而又升上天空……
Vila: I know why you're concerned, Ms. Windsong. I feel the glaciers are melting slightly faster than usual. There's going to be a warm front forming from the melting water.

北方哨歌讶异地看着台下，预想中的反对与鄙夷并未抵达。
Windsong looks at her audience. She had half-hoped for some opposition from them.

尼娜：那、那天上真的会有可怕的石头出现吗？
Nina: But, but will there really be stones falling from the sky?

北方哨歌：我不能保证，小姑娘～
Windsong: I can't say anything for certain just yet, kid.

北方哨歌：以目前这份残缺的地脉能量图来看，许多痕迹都没能对应上它们的主人，理线学暂时无法给出更确切的结论……
Windsong: All I have is this incomplete map, and as you can see, many sources of the marks and traces haven't been located, which means we can't come up with a precise calculation.

北方哨歌：但毫无疑问，天气的恶化、环境的改变，甚至某些更危险的魔精……它们都有可能出现在来亚什基。
Windsong: But there's no question that Rayashki will soon face many challenges. The weather could become much worse, the environment might change, maybe some unknown critters might turn up.

彼得森：……
Pyotr: ...

彼得森：我才不相信……你们都是骗子！
Pyotr: Liar! You are all liars!

彼得森：小镇是我们的家园，它是最好的地方！
Pyotr: Rayashki is our home, so it can't be dangerous!

下课铃声不合时宜地响了起来。
The class bell rings at an inopportune moment.

孩子们一前一后地冲出了教室。
The children rush out of the classroom one after another.

阿夫西维：彼得森，魔王的羽毛是不能被打湿的。
Avgust: Pyotr, you can't fly if your feathers get wet!

北方哨歌叹了口气，尽管还没能适应自己的新身份，但她得跟上孩子们的脚步。
Windsong sighs. Although she hasn't fully adapted to her new role, she must keep up with the children.

维拉及时地拦住了她。
Vila intercepts her.

维拉：一堂新课程的学习总需要一点儿时间，不是吗？
Vila: They will need some time to take in all this new knowledge, don't you agree?

北方哨歌：我以为自己早就习惯了这种场面……抱歉……
Windsong: I thought I could handle all their questions. I think I made things worse. Sorry.

维拉：相信孩子们吧，他们能处理好的。
Vila: Have faith in them. They will come around.

小镇广场（童话一面）

彼得森蹲在地上，小声地嘟哝着。
Pyotr squats on the ground, muttering softly to himself while rolling some pebbles.

向日葵也靠了过来。
A sunflower, and the boy attached to it, approaches.

彼得森：你是来嘲笑我的吗……？
Pyotr: Are you here to laugh at me?

彼得森：那些魔精和天上的石头的故事，一点儿也不好！
Pyotr: All these stories of monsters and falling stones—they aren't good at all!

彼得森：我偷偷听到了叶甫根尼先生的谈话……
Pyotr: I overheard Mr. Evgeni talking.

彼得森：他说，小镇现在面临着很多问题，大家的意见对于小镇的未来非常重要。
Pyotr: He said the town has so many problems, and soon, what some people think will decide our future.

彼得森：如果其他人都相信了这些可怕的话……他们就会害怕，就会不再喜欢来亚什基了……
Pyotr: If people believe in those terrible stories, maybe they will be scared, and they won't come back to Rayashki.

彼得森：甚至会放弃小镇。
Pyotr: Our town will be forgotten.

阿夫西维：可是，我没有说谎呀……
Avgust: But, I wasn't lying.

泪珠与哭腔充盈着这片小小的天地。
Choking tears fill their small world.

窸窸窣窣的响动从花坛后传了出来。
Rustling sounds come up from behind the flowerbed.

？？？：嗷呜～
???: *roars*

绒毛盖过的赤色瞳仁好奇地观察着眼前的一切。
Crimson eyes set in a furry head observe them with curiosity.

阿夫西维：咦……你好呀，奇肯恩——！
Avgust: Mm? Hello, Qiqirn!

彼得森：你、你在做什么呀？！
我来拦住它们，你快去找保卫队的叔叔们呼救！
Pyotr: What, what are you doing?! I will draw its attention. You go find the defense team for help!

年长的孩子张开了颤抖的手臂。
The older boy opens his trembling arms defensively.

小镇广场（童话一面）

一粒粒精巧的向日葵种子在稚嫩的手上摊开着。
A mound of sunflower seeds is presented on a pair of tender hands.

湿润的鼻孔凑了上来，而后，毛躁的舌头贪婪地卷起所有的种子。
Moist nostrils approach, and then a rough tongue greedily curls around the seeds.

阿夫西维：嘻嘻～好痒呀——！
Avgust: *chuckles* Heh-heh, it's itchy!

奇肯恩满意地打起呼噜，一双手轻轻地摸了上去。
The Qiqirn purrs contentedly as the now empty hands stroke it gently but confidently.

阿夫西维：它摸起来很暖和，对吧！
Avgust: It feels warm, doesn't it?

阿夫西维：北方哨歌说，它们很温暖，是我们的好朋友，把种子种在小镇的各个角落……
Avgust: Ms. Windsong said they can be our friends, that they would bring seeds to every corner of the town.

彼得森：就像我们的园丁先生一样……？
Pyotr: Like a gardener?

另一双手也颤巍巍抚上了那一簇柔软的绒毛。
Another pair of hands reach out to cautiously caress its fur.

阿夫西维：没错！
Avgust: Yes!

阿夫西维：去种下更多的太阳吧，奇肯恩～
Avgust: Go plant more sunflowers, Qiqirn!

那团深蓝的身影一溜烟地跑开了，留下一小块余温尚存的角落。
The deep blue creature darts away.

彼得森：……
Pyotr: ...

彼得森：所以……北方哨歌老师没有说谎……
Pyotr: So, Ms. Windsong was not a liar.

FR-05 手风琴 / Accordion

北大西洋暖流的风并未吹及这里。
The warm current of the ocean is a stranger to this place.

但沉寂已久的码头确实收获了久违的喧闹。
The long-silent dock seems to be pining for use, for visitors, to bustle once more with industry.

有人在码头上远眺，有如沉默的塑像。
A lone figure stands there, resolute, unblinking.

叶甫根尼：……
Evgeni: ...

维拉努力地伸展身体，她手腕和脚踝上的鳞片裸露出来，在一片白色的映照下熠熠生光。
Vila stretches out as she stands beside him. The scales on her wrists and ankles catch the light, shimmering against a white reflection in the water.

维拉：你真的认为寻求芝诺的帮助是个好选择吗？
Vila: Do you really think it's a good idea to turn to Zeno for help?

叶甫根尼：为了驱逐盘踞在港口的魔精，我们甚至将矿区周边的人手都抽调了过来。
Evgeni: We have drawn almost every man and woman from the mining facilities to get rid of the critters nesting around the port.

叶甫根尼：保卫队的轻伤人员超过五成，其中的一部分人受伤更加严重，需要在家休养半月以上。
Evgeni: Most of the defense team were injured. Some lightly, but others got much worse. It will be weeks before they can return to duty.

叶甫根尼：如果再发生类似上次排练时的大规模魔精袭击事件，恐怕不是负伤这么简单了……
Evgeni: If an attack like the one at the rehearsal happens again, I'm not sure we will be able to protect ourselves.

他的身躯毫不动摇，目光落在更遥远的废弃矿山上。
His stance doesn't waver, but his face turns stiffly toward the abandoned mine far in the distance.

叫不出名字的尖嘴鸥鸟呼啸着掠过白茫茫的大地，此起彼伏的嘶吼声遥遥传来。
Kittiwakes screech as they swoop down over the vast white tundra.

维拉：……
Vila: ...

叶甫根尼：现在许多人都在为芝诺的到来而置气……我希望你能清醒一点，维拉。
Evgeni: I know most of our people are frustrated with Zeno's arrival. But I expected better from you, Vila.

叶甫根尼：人们信任你，愿意跟随在你身后，但这并不代表着正确。你们太年轻，对这个世界的认知尚不全面。
Evgeni: People trust you, and they will follow you, but that doesn't make you right. Maybe you're still too young to see the dangers.

维拉：历史不正是在一步步试错中向前的么？
Vila: I might be wrong, but history is a long lesson in learning what is right through being unafraid to be wrong.

叶甫根尼：可留给来亚什基的时间不多了。
Evgeni: Sadly, we don't have time for trial and error.

维拉：所以你替这儿的所有人做出了决定，而毫不在乎他们是否接受？
Vila: And this is your excuse for making decisions for us against our will?

叶甫根尼：我会为我做的一切决定负责，我保证。
Evgeni: I will hold myself responsible for my decisions. In that, you have my word.

谈话不可避免地又一次陷入僵局。
Their conversation reaches deadlock once again.

好在，我们仍能见到一个更简单的世界。
Fortunately, elsewhere, there are others with fewer and simpler burdens.

阿夫西维：今天是举行欢迎仪式的日子。维拉说，当钟声响起的时候，乌龟学院的大人物们就会来到我们的小镇。
Avgust: Today is the day of our welcome ceremony. Vila said, when the bell rings, the important people from the tortoise academy will arrive.

阿夫西维：是的，每一个人都很高兴。
Avgust: Everyone looks excited.

阿夫西维：尼娜穿上了她最漂亮的裙子，她一定能跳得很好。
Avgust: Nina has put on her best dress. I know she will be great on stage.

阿夫西维：帕索诺即将与彼得森决斗，他必须保护好公主。
Avgust: Pasono will duel with Pyotr. It's his duty to protect the princess.

阿夫西维：叶甫根尼先生为我安排了新的工作。
Avgust: As for me, I got a new job from Mr. Evgeni.

阿夫西维：“敬礼，握手，向来到这儿的每一位先生致以最诚挚的问候。”
Avgust: "Salute, shake hands, and give them the warmest welcome."

孩子努力地回想着肩负在身的重大使命。
The child nods solemnly, aware of the weighty mission he must undertake.

很快，这位新晋的仪仗队员便迎来了第一位客人。
The little standard-bearer stands ready to receive Rayashki's latest guests.

奇肯恩：呜嗷、嗷——！
Qiqirn: Boawh ... arrh!

阿夫西维：咦……？水里出现了泡泡！
Avgust: What this? There are bubbles in the water!

咧开嘴的魔精从水中探出头来，两双懵懂的眼睛毫无准备地交错在一起。
The critter pops its head out of the water, two eyes staring out at the boy with bewilderment.

阿夫西维：我们又见面了，奇肯恩！……你在水面上种太阳吗？
Avgust: We meet again, Qiqirn! Are you planting sunflowers under the water?

奇肯恩：咕噜咕噜～～～
Qiqirn: *blows bubbles*

阿夫西维：你带来了你的朋友们——？
Avgust: Have you brought your friends?

水面的泡泡们接连不断地出现，越来越多的奇肯恩破开浮冰，漂浮在水面上。
Bubbles swell on the open surface of the water as more Qiqirns break up through the slurry of ice.

它们的长相古怪不一，睁大如油灯般的明黄瞳孔，好奇地打量着人们的一切。
Though their peculiar appearances differ from one to the next, they all possess large, lamp-like eyes that look out and around with curiosity.

阿夫西维：一、二……天啊，你的朋友们也有六条腿呢！
Avgust: One, two ... Oh, your friends also have six legs!

阿夫西维：它们腿上的花纹可真漂亮，像羽茅、锉刀，还有……
Avgust: Look, they are wearing needlegrass and flat files on their legs.

阿夫西维：你们是来参加我们的聚会吗？
Avgust: Are you also here for the ceremony?

孩子为自己增长的智慧而骄傲。
The child takes pride in his imagined duties.

阿夫西维：欢迎你们的到来——奇肯恩和朋友们！
Avgust: Welcome, Qiqirn and friends!

阿夫西维：很高兴你们能来参观这儿最漂亮的小镇，来亚什基。
Avgust: Welcome to the prettiest town in all of the Arctic—Rayashki!

阿夫西维：请欣赏合唱曲目——
Avgust: Please enjoy our song—

他的脸颊通红，响亮的童声回荡在辽阔的海面上，热烈地传了出去。
His cheeks flush as spirited childish voices reverberate in unison out into the sea ahead.

海鸥惊叫着飞起，皱眉的先生快步走上前来。
Seagulls take flight as a distant stern statue springs to life and rushes over.

叶甫根尼：阿夫西维同志，你在做什么？！
Evgeni: Comrade Avgust, what are you doing?!

阿夫西维：嗯？我在欢迎奇肯恩呀～
Avgust: Oh? I'm welcoming the Qiqirn.

孩子高兴地向登上码头的奇肯恩们致意。
The child happily salutes the Qiqirns as they step onto the dock.

叶甫根尼：离开那儿，它们很危险——！
Evgeni: Get out of there. They are dangerous!

叶甫根尼：保卫队，清除这些捣乱的魔精们！
Evgeni: Defense team, drive them away!

维拉：等等——它们是奇肯恩，一种温驯的魔精。它们并无恶意，只是对人类世界感到好奇，孩子们都很喜欢它们……
Vila: Wait! These are Qiqirn. They are not aggressive! They are just curious about us. The kids seem to like them.

对方的动作没有丝毫迟疑，甚至没有回头看一眼。
The defense team moves swiftly and without hesitation.

叶甫根尼：消灭它们。
Evgeni: Get rid of them.

保卫队员Ⅰ：是——！
Guard I: As you command, comrade!

弹孔与火光将平静的水面搅得七零八落，奇肯恩们纷纷窜入水中。
Sprays of bullets and bursts of flame disrupt the water's surface, following the Qiqirns as they dive in, one after another.

它们在响起的钟声里潦草地退场，甚至没能目睹随之盛开的礼花。
Alarms wail in the distance, but the Qiqirns are already long gone.

闻讯而来的孩子们也没能为它们送行。
The children who came to see them are left on the ground, gripping their hats over their ears.

尼娜：奇肯恩们逃跑了，它们一定不喜欢我们的小镇了……
Nina: The Qiqirns are all gone. I think they don't like us anymore.

孩子众：……
Kids: ...

维拉：叶甫根尼同志……
Vila: Comrade Evgeni ...

叶甫根尼：带领孩子们归队，维拉同志，这是你的责任。
Evgeni: Take the kids back to where they were, Comrade Vila. It was your duty to protect them.

毫无情绪的命令被冷漠地掷在了地上。
His orders fizzle out as soon as they are said.

彼得森：只要我们能把小镇建设得更好，就能吸引更多的好朋友。
Pyotr: Maybe if we make the town a better place, more friends will come back.

彼得森：它们也一定会回来！
Pyotr: Then they will also come back!

帕索诺：没错——！
Pasono: That makes sense!

不远处的学者注视着这一切。一阵无人发觉的叹息后，笔记本沙沙作响。
The researcher observes all this from a nearby vantage. Her notebook rustles with a sigh.

北方哨歌：奇肯恩的家族有数十个种类，但无论在哪个区域，任何一个种类的奇肯恩都不曾表现出如此优秀的适水性。也就是说——
Windsong: The family of Qiqirn includes dozens of subspecies, but none of them are so greatly adapted to water as this. That is to say ...

北方哨歌：它们同样是受来亚什基的地脉能量变动影响而产生的特例。
Windsong: They might also be affected by the ley energy under Rayashki.

北方哨歌：只可惜没法获得更详细的研究数据了……
Windsong: Pity that they were driven away. There was much we could have learned from them.

抬头

她抬起头，一团浓郁的云遮住了太阳，几缕散逸的光艰难地穿过了它。
She looks up. A blanket of clouds obscures the sun, with only a few rays of light breaking through.

北方哨歌：嘶——！
Windsong: *gasps*

北方哨歌：这儿的温度上升得也太快了，甚至比我的预期还要快上几天。
Windsong: The temperature here is rising much faster than expected, and much earlier in the season.

北方哨歌：按照历年的官方数据，如此严重的异常升温现象显然是一种超出标准的“无效数据”……
Windsong: I imagine if you asked the weather bureau, they would say this is just an "odd occurrence of unseasonable weather outside of expected ranges."

“砰——”

轰鸣的礼炮声打断了北方哨歌对遥远海岸线的目送与致意。
*boom*

对岸
The booming sound of cannon fire interrupts Windsong's train of thought.

叶甫根尼：约定的时间到了，芝诺的调查员很快就会抵达这里。
Evgeni: It's time. The Zeno investigators should be here any minute.

叶甫根尼：我需要重申，这是一次相当重要的仪式。
Evgeni: I must stress again how important this ceremony could be for our future.

叶甫根尼：小镇的经济情况并不乐观，我想每一个人都能从我们各项物资的配给中有所发觉。
Evgeni: Our town's economy is facing a cliff, and I am sure each one of you has noticed the increased rationing.

叶甫根尼：为了照顾好更多的人们，也为了应付周围愈发频繁的魔精袭击，芝诺的支持必不可少。
Evgeni: If we wish to take care of our people in the future and protect our friends and family from these frequent critter attacks, we need Zeno's support.

叶甫根尼：我们亟需与芝诺建立新的合作关系。
Evgeni: So we will work with Zeno. Because we must!

叶甫根尼：它关乎着来亚什基的命运，也关乎着我们每一位同胞的未来。
Evgeni: The future of Rayashki is in our hands, so is the future of every comrade here.

叶甫根尼：这需要我们每一个人的共同努力。
Evgeni: And we need the cooperation of every man and woman here.

他的目光落在那尾鲜艳的鲁萨尔卡身上。
His stare falls toward the Rusalka's vibrant tail.

许久，视线里的人影终于开口了。
After a pause, his target replies.

维拉：当芝诺的船帆出现在海平面时——
Vila: Zeno's ships are very fast, so, as soon as they appear on the horizon,

维拉：欢迎仪式正式开始。
Vila: our ceremony will begin.

合唱队员们：明白。
Choir Members: Understood.

人们不约而同地站直了身子，凝望着蓝白色相接的一线。
The choir rises in unison, looking out at the pale blue horizon.

遗憾的是，万众瞩目的海平面并没有承载起这份厚重的期待。
The sea responds placidly.

红鲑鱼在海面上跃起又落下，鸥鸟盘旋在空无一船的海岸线上……
Salmon leap out from the water. Seagulls circling along the empty coastline.

而绘制着芝诺图案的旗帜却始终没能升起。
Yet no sign of the anticipated ship appears.

过于安静的大人们显然引起了孩子们的注意。
The quiet expectations of the adults set the children to whisper.

帕索诺：芝诺的先生迟到了。
Pasono: Zeno is late.

彼得森：按照学校里的规定，这种行为属于旷课。
Pyotr: So late that Ms. Vila would say they were absent!

尼娜：他们遇上了什么不好的事情吗……？
Nina: Do you think something bad happened to them?

阿夫西维：他们在做什么呢……？
Avgust: What are they doing there?

值得庆幸的是，更具吸引力的事物很快便落了下来。
No answers come, but a new event catches their attention.

全屏特效-小雪

阿夫西维：咦——！有什么落下来了！
Avgust: Oh! Something is falling!

阿夫西维：轻飘飘，软绵绵……好多好多的熊毛！
Avgust: Light and soft, like a polar bear's hair!

乌云压了过来，遮住了最后一丝阳光。
Dark clouds press down on them, blocking out the final rays of sunlight.

全屏变暗，像是天气昏沉

阿夫西维：……可怜的北极熊，它的身上一定光秃秃的。
Avgust: Poor bear, losing all his hair.

全屏特效-雪越下越大，形成猛烈的暴雪

漫天的雪花纷纷扬扬地洒落。
Snowflakes flutter down across the gray sky.

它们相互拥抱、汇合，飘落在这座不大的镇子上。
Converging in the blustering wind, they fall towards the town.

尼娜：……嗯？
Nina: Mmm?

帕索诺：下雪了——！
Pasono: It's snow!

彼得森：怎么可能？！……原来来亚什基的夏天，也会下雪吗？
Pyotr: What?! How can there be snow in summer?

帕索诺：咦～这就是阿夫西维说的奇怪的东西吗？
Pasono: Mm? Is this related to the strange thing Avgust said earlier?

尼娜：幸好它们不是石头，也不是湿漉漉的口水。
Nina: If so, I'm happy that these aren't stones or a dark cloud's spit.

孩子们靠向阿夫西维，围在这位坚定的先行者身旁。
The children huddle near Avgust, astonished by the accuracy of his predictions.

帕索诺：阿夫西维同学，真不可思议，我可没见过你有这么聪明的时候呀～
Pasono: Avgust, I can't believe it! You were never right before!

尼娜：唔，好冷……这些小雪花可真刺人！
Nina: *shivers* Oh, oh, it's chilly. The snow is biting against my skin.

彼得森：我向你道歉，阿夫西维同学——你没有骗人。
Pyotr: I'm sorry, Avgust. I shouldn't call you a liar.

他扭扭捏捏地低下了头。
He lowers his head hesitantly.

彼得森：可是，来亚什基会变得更糟吗……？
Pyotr: But will Rayashki really get into trouble?

一双稚嫩的手拍了拍彼得森的肩膀。
A gentle hand nudges Pyotr, a motion learned from someone older and wiser.

阿夫西维：彼得森，我们不会被乌云打败，也不会输给北极熊。
Avgust: Pyotr, we will not be defeated, not by clouds, or bears.

阿夫西维：你看——！
Avgust: Look!

阿夫西维：慢吞吞的乌龟先生还没有来。
Avgust: Mr. Tortoise is walking very slowly.

阿夫西维：但是大家都认真地站在自己的位置上。
Avgust: But no one has left their position.

阿夫西维：大家都喜欢来亚什基。
Avgust: For Rayashki.

阿夫西维：天鹅们也要回到湖里，快点儿，再快点——！
Avgust: You little swans must go back to your lake too! Go as fast as you can!

尼娜：……嗯！
Nina: We will!

彼得森：别忘了你自己……阿夫西维同学！
Pyotr: Don't forget your own job, Avgust!

孩子们回到了各自的位置，正如最开始的那般。
The children return to their positions and ready themselves.

北方哨歌：好吧……看来这条乳白色的痕迹属于这场暴雪。
Windsong: So, this milky white line is this snowstorm.

北方哨歌：毫无疑问，来亚什基的平均气温甚至已经越过了近五年的夏季最高点，它们与同样反常的丰富水汽一同协作，造成了这场越下越大的暴雪……
Windsong: The average temperature in Rayashki has reached its highest point in the last five years, which, together with the abnormally rich air moisture, has produced an unseasonal and odd kind of snow.

北方哨歌：官方的数据被推翻了，理线学是对的！
Windsong: The weather forecast was wrong; ley lines were right!

北方哨歌相当振奋。
Windsong can't hide her excitement.

她倚靠在更远一些的围墙边，运笔如飞，翻过了一页又一页的笔记。
She leans up on a wall some distance from the event, her pen flying across page after page of notes.

许久，她终于回过神来。
Until she is compelled to snap back to reality.

北方哨歌：嗯……？
Windsong: Mm?

留在原地的显然不止她一人。
The assembly before her has barely moved.

暴雪无声地落下，淹没越来越多的地方。
The snow claims more territory by the minute.

海面，栏杆，以及一双双或大或小的长靴。
Over sea and land, piling up on the railings, and rising over boots, large and small.

北方哨歌：——！
Windsong: ...!

换图

遥远的汽笛声裹着芝诺的旗帜终于姗姗来迟。
A distant foghorn accompanies the sight of a flag piercing up into the horizon. Zeno arrives at last.

叶甫根尼：全体人员，准备！
Evgeni: Everyone, listen!

叶甫根尼：欢迎仪式正式开始。
Evgeni: Our ceremony will begin.

镇民众：是——！
Residents: As you command, comrade!

叶甫根尼：……奏乐！
Evgeni: Music, please!

镇民众：“时光呀它缓缓地飘远——”
Residents: "Let go of yesterday, let it fade away."

镇民众：“朋友呀别为那不停留的怀念——”
Residents: "Each step paints a brand-new day."

镇民众：“失去的昨日令我们遗憾——”
Residents: "Don't look behind, no shadows will be seen in the daylight."

镇民众：“但更美好的仍旧在前方——”
Residents: "Under brighter skies, we leave on our journey."

汽船缓缓停靠在这个简陋的港口，再也没有任何动静。
The steamship pulls into their rudimentary harbor, but no further movement follows.

而终于打开的舷窗边，没有问候，没有声响。
A porthole opens, but no voice comes out, no sound whatsoever beyond the lapping waves.

只有一封古怪的信件，轻飘飘地落在了所有人的面前。
A letter flutters out toward the anxious crowd.

？？？：很高兴与你们会面，来亚什基的朋友们。
???: It's a pleasure to speak to you all, our valued friends in Rayashki.

？？？：我在此谨代表芝诺军备学院，发表对于“芝诺与来亚什基合作条例”的初步通知。
???: On behalf of Zeno Arms Academy, I am here to announce the details of the "Zeno-Rayashki Cooperation Agreement."

？？？：如你们所期待的那样，我们带来了一整支精锐的武装小队，我相信，他们一定能为各位解决眼前的魔精麻烦。
???: As many of you have expected, a squad of armed troops will soon be sent to aid you with the critter problem.

？？？：但同样，我们很遗憾地宣布——经过反复且慎重的考量，芝诺初步决定，暂时中止对来亚什基的一切支持政策，并建议各位尽早开展在来亚什基的撤离工作。
???: However, having given it careful consideration, we have decided that the town of Rayashki is no longer viable for our continued support and must be abandoned. We advise that all residents prepare to be transferred to a new post, immediately.

？？？：希望各位能予以配合。
???: Thank you for your cooperation.

维拉：什么——？！
Vila: What?!

FR-06 好日子，坏日子 / Good Days, Bad Days

会议室

贝托尔特：我不理解你们坚持的理由。
Bertolt: I don't see the point of your reluctance.

皱着眉头的先生理了理信上的龟形纹样，将那页轻飘飘的纸张塞进了信封的嘴里。
The frowning master of ceremonies straightens the tortoise-patterned letter and then shoves it back into its envelope.

贝托尔特：关于芝诺的决定，信上已经写得很清楚了。
Bertolt: The letter conveyed Zeno's decision clearly.

贝托尔特：我建议，我们应该找个暖和的酒馆，喝上最后几杯……如果你们这儿有斯托利的话。
Bertolt: I suggest we warm ourselves up with a few drinks before we go. Do you have any Stolich in town?

贝托尔特：而不是坐在这个冷冰冰的地方，讨论着一些早有答案的问题。
Bertolt: Better than sitting here dwelling on the things that cannot be changed.

贝托尔特：……这儿没准备点可可豆之类的吗？
Bertolt: Please tell me you have something like cocoa here.

他旁若无人地伸了个懒腰，陷进了沙发里。
Their long-awaited guest stretches lazily, as if no one is around, and sinks into the couch.

空气近乎凝固，底下的暗流几乎要翻涌上来。
The tension in the air hangs like fumes waiting to ignite.

维拉：贝托尔特先生，这和说好的不一样。
Vila: This is not what we agreed on earlier, Mr. Bertolt.

叶甫根尼：冷静点，维拉。
Evgeni: Calm yourself, Vila.

贝托尔特：你似乎误会了什么，这位冷冰冰的女士。
Bertolt: You must be mistaken, my very passionate friend.

贝托尔特：芝诺早在数个月前便寄出了通知：“来亚什基的现有价值已不足以支撑芝诺的后续支持……”
Bertolt: Zeno sent a warning months ago. "The estimated value Rayashki can add to Zeno's program is less than satisfactory. Further support is no longer recommended."

贝托尔特：“若该区域发现了尚未报告的、更具价值的资源，请相关负责人尽早回复，并提请芝诺调查员的进一步评估。”
Bertolt: "Should any new valuable resources be found in the region, please reply to this letter as soon as possible for further assessment."

维拉：——！
Vila: ...!

贝托尔特：之后，我们收到了来亚什基方面的回信。
Bertolt: Then we heard back from Rayashki.

贝托尔特：发件人是——叶甫根尼。
Bertolt: In fact, the sender was you, Evgeni.

叶甫根尼：……是的。
Evgeni: Yes, it was.

贝托尔特：不得不承认，你的观点相当有趣，甚至引起了上头的注意……所以，我才被派到了这儿。
Bertolt: And it was you yourself that argued the most compelling point, I have to say. One that has drawn the higher-ups' attention, and the reason why I was sent here.

贝托尔特：“我认为，来亚什基的人们拥有着卓越的品质。他们团结、敬业、充满干劲，是一批相当优秀的可用之材。”
Bertolt: I believe you wrote: "I have total faith in the quality of the people of Rayashki. Their solidarity, dedication, and motivation have proven invaluable to us."

贝托尔特：“哪怕在芝诺的其他地方，我也始终确信，他们能够发挥出重要的作用。”
Bertolt: "I am certain they would carry those same strengths of character and skill to any post, no matter where they were assigned."

他折起信纸，递给一脸茫然的维拉。
He folds the letter and hands it to Vila, her face blank as a canvas.

叶甫根尼：芝诺受理了我的申请。
Evgeni: Zeno accepted my application.

叶甫根尼：当然，我私下询问了不少人，他们都对芝诺评价颇高。
Evgeni: Of course, I asked around before making my submission, and Zeno seemed to have a good reputation.

叶甫根尼：……加入芝诺是一个难得的机会。
Evgeni: It was a golden opportunity to join them.

贝托尔特：别误会，我们的考核可一点儿也不轻松，你们机会难得。
Bertolt: It is, but do not get us wrong. Our entrance requirements can be most difficult to meet.

贝托尔特：芝诺只需要无数优秀人才中的最优秀的那一丁点儿～
Bertolt: Zeno only takes in the best of the best.

维拉：让一部分人……搬去芝诺？！
Vila: You want some of us to work for Zeno?!

维拉：你从没有跟我们提过这些……叶甫根尼！
Vila: You never told us anything like that, Evgeni!

叶甫根尼：但从更理性的角度而言，我们应该让一部分人把握住这个投身芝诺的机会。
Evgeni: Be reasonable, Vila. Some of us deserve this opportunity.

维拉：那其他人呢？！——我们的老人、孩子、那些为了挖掘矿石而负伤甚至死亡的同胞……
Vila: What about the others?! We have elders and children. Some of our comrades have been injured and even died in the mine; are we to forget their sacrifices?

她尽力扼制自己的愤怒，脖颈上的细鳃剧烈地起伏。
She tries to suppress the gills on her neck as they heave violently.

贝托尔特：放心，我的朋友。这正是我们派出最为精锐的生物问题处理小队的原因。
Bertolt: Relax, my friend. That's why we sent our very best biological control squad.

贝托尔特：我们会协助你们撤离到最近的安全避难区。
Bertolt: We will escort you to the nearest shelter.

打击一浪接一浪，似乎永无尽头。
Another wave upon relentless waves of shock.

叶甫根尼：维拉，你得正视现实。我知道大家都为这儿付出了全部的努力，也理解你的目标——
Evgeni: Face reality, Vila. I know how much effort we have put into building this town, and I understand you have this dream to fulfill.

叶甫根尼：可我们必须面对它，做好放弃来亚什基的最坏打算。
Evgeni: But we must prepare for the worst: we may have to give up on our Rayashki.

他拿出了一份满是划痕与批注的文件，递给了对方。
He takes out a document covered in scratched notes and annotations and hands it to her.

叶甫根尼：看看这个吧……
Evgeni: Read this.

维拉：“经实地探测确认，来亚什基目前可供开采的卢恩矿约为0.00173万吨，已不足往年年均产量的0.275%。”
Vila: "Field investigation has confirmed that the remaining runium reserves in Rayashki are around 0.0173 kilotons, which is less than 0.275% of our average annual output."

维拉：“此外，该区域由于地处北极，矿石运输成本极高，且不适合作为卢恩矿石加工厂的选址。”
Vila: "The mine is located high within the Arctic Circle, which has entailed significant transportation costs. The harsh environment is also wholly unsuitable for building any permanent processing facilities."

维拉：“同时，考虑到当地愈发频繁的野兽与魔精的袭击事件，需配备的武装保护支出已累增至原成本的3.61倍，且呈现出递增趋势。”
Vila: "In addition, military spending on the region has recently been elevated 3.61 times due to increasing animal and critter attacks, and that number is still rising."

维拉：“显然，该区域已不具备负担区域自理的能力。”
Vila: "Clearly, the region is now incapable of self-management."

维拉：“据芝诺军备学院下辖减灾署《世界人道主义援助指南》规定，初步决议如下——”
Vila: "According to the Guide on Global Humanitarian Aid by the Office for Disaster Risk Reduction of Zeno Arms Academy, we propose to ..."

维拉：“安排负责人员前往该地区，协助当地住民的有序撤离；同时，在撤离完成后，接管该区域后续的一切危机清理事务。”
Vila: "... send a special squad to the region to evacuate all local citizens and subsequently take care of the remaining biological control issues."

收起浮窗

贝托尔特：此外，芝诺可适当放宽对于该地区的人员遴选标准，以补充芝诺各分部的人员。
Bertolt: And our admission standards will be lowered—at Zeno's discretion—so that you will all find work with us somewhere.

芝诺的代表人适时地补充了尚未写明的内容。
Zeno's representative offers a timely, if unconvincing, supplement to the letter.

纸张在维拉的手上生出一道道褶皱，最后被揉成一团凌乱的纸球。
The paper creases and crumples into a ball in her hands.

叶甫根尼：很遗憾，这就是现实。
Evgeni: I'm sorry, but this is reality.

叶甫根尼：对于芝诺而言……他们扶持来亚什基的初衷正是为了这些价值高昂的小石头。
Evgeni: From the start, this ore was the only thing they wanted from us.

叶甫根尼：我们克服了恶劣的开采环境，将它们一箱箱地装入矿船，运往芝诺的各个分部。
Evgeni: The environment here has always been harsh for mining, but we overcame it and sent our shipments to wherever Zeno had need of them.

贝托尔特：向你们每一个人致敬，我亲爱的朋友们。
Bertolt: And I salute each one of you for your work, my friends.

叶甫根尼：现在，这一使命完成了。
Evgeni: But now, our mission is over.

毫无疑问，卢恩矿石是小镇的命脉。而失去它之后，来亚什基羸弱得像个孩子。
There is no doubt in anyone's mind: runium has been the town's lifeblood and the key to its survival.

叶甫根尼：我坚信，这儿的所有人会在其他地方继续劳动，继续建设，哪怕……
Evgeni: I believe all of you will continue to work hard in your new positions. No matter what ...

维拉：……叶甫根尼，你对待来亚什基的未来太轻率了。
Vila: You shouldn't rush to a decision. We're discussing Rayashki's future here, Evgeni.

维拉：这个地方凝聚了数代人六十余年的血汗，离开并非是你我的一句话。
Vila: For six decades, the people here have put in great efforts to turn the town into what it is today. We won't leave just because you tell us so.

维拉：最早的时候，祖辈们甚至没有一台正常运行的起重机。他们用无数双手掘起了一块块巨石。
Vila: Our grandparents didn't even have construction equipment at the beginning. They built these houses with their own hands.

维拉：汽船们运来了种植蔬菜的土壤，我们砌起了抵挡风雪的围墙。
Vila: We shipped over the planting soil. We built walls to keep out the wind and snow.

闭塞的会议室里，空气又湿润了几分。
Within the meeting room's cloistered walls, the air is heavy with moisture once more.

叶甫根尼：后来你来到了这儿。你为孩子们带来了许多新课本，也让大家认识了在人类之外，还存在着许多特别的种族……你融入得很快。
Evgeni: When you came here, you brought books for the children and introduced us to a species different than humans. You became one of us.

叶甫根尼：我很抱歉，维拉同志。
Evgeni: I am not happy about this either, Comrade Vila.

维拉：我不接受你的同情，叶甫根尼同志。这不只是我个人的理想，而是这儿所有人的。
Vila: I won't buy that, Comrade Evgeni. This is not just about my dream, but everyone's dream.

维拉：难道你忘了来亚什基建立的初衷吗？
Vila: Or have you forgotten what Rayashki was meant to be?

叶甫根尼：一个为所有人而建，也欢迎所有人一同建设的理想城市，它会发展，壮大，直到遍布世界的每一寸土地。
Evgeni: A utopia built for and by everyone. The voice of a better future, one which would sound across the land and seas.

叶甫根尼：我一点儿也没忘。
Evgeni: I remember every word of it.

叶甫根尼的语气低沉，但仍旧斩钉截铁。
Evgeni's voice is low but still decisive.

贝托尔特：我很同情你们，朋友。
Bertolt: You have my sympathy, friends.

贝托尔特：因为某些原因，芝诺在世界各地都遭受了巨大的损失。
Bertolt: Zeno has also suffered huge losses in many regions.

贝托尔特：不只是来亚什基，我们也损失了许多人手，失去了许多战略要地、军工厂，甚至是下辖的军事学院。
Bertolt: We have lost manpower, territory, armament factories, and even some of our affiliated military schools. Rayashki is but one of these losses.

贝托尔特：我们对你们的现状感同身受。
Bertolt: We know how you feel right now.

他耸了耸肩，无奈挂满了整张脸。
He shrugs his shoulders, his face a picture of unhelpfulness.

贝托尔特：但这显然不只是芝诺的问题。
Bertolt: But Zeno has its own problems to be faced.

贝托尔特：新工业，让人眼花缭乱的电器，五花八门的新花样——到处都需要资金。哪怕是芝诺，我们也得在某些地方勒紧裤腰带了。
Bertolt: And investing in these new industries, purchasing fancy equipment, all these things Rayashki will need ... All of this takes money. And even Zeno must be economical.

维拉：那你们口口声声标榜的世界福祉呢？
Vila: Shouldn't the people in Rayashki also benefit from these global benefits Zeno has promised?

贝托尔特：当然是放缓了，我的朋友。相信我，芝诺已经为你们竭尽了全力。
Bertolt: We will get there, my friend. Maybe slowly, but we will get there. Trust me, Zeno has done everything they can for you.

贝托尔特：哪怕在这个动荡的时代，我们仍然有所坚持，并且不懈地抓牢我们向往的重要之物，对吧？
Bertolt: We need to keep our eyes on our goals and stay on the right course, so that we won't get lost in these turbulent times, yes?

维拉：……
Vila: ...

他略微靠近了维拉，压低了声音。
He leans toward Vila, providing an unnecessary whisper.

贝托尔特：我明白你在这座小镇的分量，也相信你能安抚好余下的其他人。
Bertolt: I know how much faith these people have in you, and I believe you can show them a different perspective about these coming changes.

贝托尔特：当然，这也会为你的考核加上不少分……
Bertolt: Of course, this will also help you during Zeno's assessment.

维拉：…………
Vila: ...

贝托尔特：祝你们好运，朋友。
Bertolt: Good luck, my friend.

FR-07 纸奖章 / A Paper Medal

旅馆房间

北方哨歌：匮乏的卢恩矿石，新的魔精亚种，骤降的暴雪……
Windsong: The reserves of runium running dry, the appearance of new critters, the sudden snowstorm.

北方哨歌：多亏了它们自证身份，这张地脉能量图越来越完整了！
Windsong: I've connected the ley lines of each of these phenomena. The map is nearly complete!

她展开了那张种种线条与光点堆叠在一起的繁复图纸。
She unfolds the complex blueprint filled with various lines and marks.

北方哨歌：可是……这里还有不少没有得到验证的线条与痕迹。
Windsong: But still haven't traced many lines and marks back to their source.

北方哨歌：光靠我自己，想再偷摸着溜进那些工厂、禁区之类的地方一点儿也不现实。
Windsong: Perhaps if I go back to the factories, into the restricted zones ... But, I can't do that alone.

北方哨歌：更何况，这座小镇还遭遇了更大的麻烦……
Windsong: Definitely not when the situation in town is so unstable.

北方哨歌趴倒在桌面，层层叠叠的典籍与稿纸堆把她埋在了最底下。
Windsong collapses onto the table. An avalanche follows, covering her in layers of books and manuscripts.

纷繁的故纸堆像是连绵的高山，遮蔽了所有的光线。
The piles around her loom like a mountain range, casting her in shadow.

北方哨歌：好吧，也许我早该放弃了……理线学根本没机会回到大众视野之中去。
Windsong: Well, I should have given this up long ago. There's no chance that the study of ley lines will ever be accepted again.

过往的讥讽与鄙夷悄无声息地追上了她。
Phantom voices of past mockery and scorn rise up to her ears.

回忆滤镜

“评述者”：我很抱歉，北方哨歌女士。光凭这些不知多少年以前的老旧资料和报告，我们显然不能通过理线学的复课申请。
"Reviewer": Regretfully, Ms. Windsong, with nothing but these outdated files and materials to back you up, there's simply no way to justify reinstating the study of ley lines into our curriculum.

“评述者”：我们的研究经费是有限的，理应拨调到能稳定产出名誉与成果的学科上……至于理线学嘛，呵呵……
"Reviewer": We don't have unlimited funds, and we must save our money for projects with greater potential. The study of ley lines is ...

“评述者”：当然，我们同样鼓励新兴学科的发展，但仅仅依靠你自己是不够的……
"Reviewer": Of course, we might be able to consider new ideas and projects. You can't be allowed to do this on your own.

“评述者”：你得拿出一块有诚意的敲门砖，地理研究学会、神秘动物协会，或是更有分量的背书。
"Reviewer": You will need endorsements from the Institution of Geographic Studies, the Arcane Creature Society, or other such organizations.

“评述者”：噢，让我想想，芝诺似乎最近对地理学者的兴致颇高，他们招徕了一大批编外研究员，我想，你大可以去那儿碰碰运气。
"Reviewer": Let me think. Zeno seems to be interested in geographers recently. They've just recruited a number of researchers for a new commission. Maybe you should go try your luck with them.

收起滤镜

窗外传来了叮叮咚咚的声音，像是儿歌的和声。
An echo of a nursery rhyme rings out from beyond her self-made mountain range.

但她沉浸在沉重的郁愤中，丝毫没有发觉。
But she is all but oblivious to it.

拉近

北方哨歌：芝诺指派的期限越来越近了……可光凭现在的成果，显然没法搞到芝诺的推荐信。
Windsong: The submission date is getting closer each day, but I've made poor progress. Zeno won't endorse me if I can't find a breakthrough.

北方哨歌：他们的动作越来越激进了，先是派来了一大堆杂七杂八的编外调查人员，甚至现在还派出了军队……
Windsong: They have become more and more radical and desperate lately. First, they sent those researchers here to conduct their haphazard studies, and now, an armed force.

北方哨歌：——就为了一个不知什么年代编造出的“永动能源”传闻？
Windsong: And all this effort just to chase the rumor of some source of "perpetual energy"?

北方哨歌：“永动的能源显然存在于永冻的土壤中！”
Windsong: "That this perpetual energy source must be hidden somewhere beneath the permafrost!"

北方哨歌：大人物们动动手指，从指甲缝里抠出点甜头，可怜的小狗学者就得屁颠屁颠地窜来窜去！
Windsong: The higher-ups call the shots. All they need to do is spread a little honey in the right places. Then all the little researchers will swarm on it like flies.

北方哨歌：可世界上真有这样神奇的能源吗？
Windsong: But could there really be a magical power source like that?

北方哨歌：无论如何，独自完成地脉能量图的绘制只是个遥不可及的梦……
Windsong: Whether there is or not, I still have a map to finish. There's no way that I can map every ley line in the region all by myself.

北方哨歌：…………
Windsong: ...

北方哨歌：永别了，我从未享受过的研究补助、万众期待的学术访谈，还有遥不可及的“地理视野”论坛。
Windsong: Goodbye research funds, goodbye lectures and seminars, and so long to my dreams of being chair of the "Geographical Perspectives" forum.

她推开了几本挡在面前的书，光线和一些细微的声响渗了进来。
She jostles the heaps of books, moving them just enough to let in some light and sound.

像是缀入黑夜的点点繁星。
They seep in through the cracks like starlight.

窗

？？？：当当——！
???: Took-took!

北方哨歌：……！
Windsong: ...!

返回

房门被迅速地关上了，北方哨歌紧张地靠在门上。
The door snaps shut. Windsong stands against it nervously.

桌上的仪器滚落一地，在窗台，在桌角，在床底。它们相互碰撞，一同奏起慌乱的乐章。
Instruments roll off the table, colliding with each other on the windowsill, the corners, and under the bed, falling in a cacophonous disarray.

北方哨歌：我眼花了吗……？
Windsong: What was that?

房门再一次被轻轻推了开来，一束向日葵从门缝里探出头来。
The door is gently pushed open again, revealing the curious face of a sunflower peeking in through the crack.

阿夫西维：北方哨歌，我们在等你～
Avgust: Ms. Windsong, we've been waiting for you!

这是一枚略显简陋的奖章，缺少精美的设计理念，也没有厚重的金属质感。
As far as medals go, the design is a little cruder than expected, and damp paper doesn't quite have the same gravitas as gold or silver.

北方哨歌曾为理线学幻想过无数次与之相似的画面。
Still, Windsong has fantasized countless times about receiving such an accolade for her work, even a paper one.

北方哨歌：……！
Windsong: ...!

尼娜：北方哨歌老师，我们为您和阿夫西维同学准备了授勋典礼！
Nina: Ms. Windsong, we prepared a special medal ceremony for you and Avgust!

帕索诺：我们欢迎您来参加仪式——！
Pasono: Please come to our ceremony!

彼得森：……
Pyotr: ...

彼得森：谢谢您教给我们知识……
Pyotr: We just wanted to thank you for teaching us.

彼得森：维拉老师说得对，我们不能随意地否定他人。
Pyotr: Ms. Vila was right. We shouldn't have been so quick to argue. We should have listened!

尼娜：你们应该受到表扬！
Nina: So you should be given an award for being right!

尼娜：不过，它要比电视上的简单多了……
Nina: But our ceremony will not be as big as the ones on TV.

是的，这是独属于孩子们的颁奖仪式。
Indeed, this is a very special and exclusive reward.

无比简陋，同时具备孩子气的童真和滑稽。
Simple as it is, it comes with something nothing else could: the innocence and laughter of children.

彼得森：北方哨歌老师，您愿意接受这枚勋章吗？
Pyotr: Ms. Windsong, will you accept this medal?

这是许久以来的时间里，理线学第一次受到了如此广泛的认可。
For the first time in a long while, the study of ley lines basks in the glow of scholarly acclaim.

纸质勋章被微微发颤的手包裹了起来。
The paper medal is cupped in her trembling hands.

儿童广场

北方哨歌：……
Windsong: ...

北方哨歌：哪怕我现在没有能装进这枚勋章的杯子，也没法一口饮尽你们的鼓励。
Windsong: I have no cup to put this medal in, so we can't toast with it in celebration.

某种浓烈而激烈的气味冲撞着她的鼻腔。
She sniffles.

北方哨歌：但至少，这趟短暂的旅程不算一无所获……谢谢你们，小家伙。
Windsong: But now I know, no matter what, I won't be returning empty-handed. Thank you, kids.

尼娜：您要离开我们了吗……？
Nina: Do you mean, are you leaving us?

帕索诺：可我们还什么都没学会呢！
Pasono: But there is so much you still need to teach us!

彼得森：“来亚什基永远欢迎每一个人”，当然也包括您——难道您不喜欢我们的小镇吗？
Pyotr: "Rayashki embraces every guest," including you, Ms. Windsong—don't you like it here?

孩子们泫然欲泣，现在轮到另一个人慌乱了。
The children are on the verge of tears. She is pulled in helplessly, too.

北方哨歌：可在欢迎仪式上，我听说了那些不好的传闻……
Windsong: But those things I heard at the welcome ceremony ... Won't we all be leaving soon?

阿夫西维：大嘴信是小气鬼，不是好朋友！
Avgust: No! I don't believe it. That stranger was mean; he wasn't our friend!

彼得森：哼——这是我们的小镇，他们说了可不算。
Pyotr: Hmph. This is our town; they can't speak for us.

尼娜：没错！
Nina: That's right!

没有怀疑，没有难过，只有无数双坚定的眼睛。
Neither doubt nor sorrow will dim their eyes—before her lies only a sea of steadfast faces.

童稚的话语积极而炽热。
Their words encouraging and powerful despite their youth.

消解了她的愕然，又似乎悄悄种下了什么。
They plant some strange seed of hope within her.

彼得森：维拉老师“邀请”了那位来自芝诺的先生下船，他们一起去了叶甫根尼先生的会议室。
Pyotr: Ms. Vila "invited" the man from Zeno to leave his ship. Then they went into Mr. Evgeni's meeting room together.

尼娜：是的……克努特叔叔向我们保证过，没有人会放弃这儿。
Nina: Uncle Knut promised me that no one will give up this place.

尼娜：他们会继续和芝诺开会，得、得出“一个让大家都满意的方案”——
Nina: They will go to many meetings and find "a solution that satisfies both sides."

阿夫西维：乌龟们爬得很慢，他们需要瞪大眼睛，仔细观察！
Avgust: The tortoises move slowly. They need to keep their eyes opened and look for a better answer!

尼娜：……您还能继续为我们上课吗？
Nina: So will you stay and teach us?

彼得森：我再也不捣乱了，我保证！
Pyotr: I won't cause you any more trouble, I promise!

孩子们哄堂大笑。
The children burst into laughter.

甚至盖过了窗台传来的窸窣异响。
Their voices very nearly drown out the rustling noises coming from the windowsill.

阿夫西维：咦？尺子同志在说话——！
Avgust: Mm? Comrade Calculator is speaking!

孩子好奇地窜进了半掩着门的客房。
Curiosity propels the child through the half-open door of the guest room.

旅馆房间
窗边
尺子出现
漂浮在高空中的理线尺，旁边有许多无规律运动的线条

阿夫西维：你好～
Avgust: Hello!

“改线尺”：……
"Ley Calibrator": ...

阿夫西维：尺子同志，你在指挥蚯蚓们的方向吗？
Avgust: Comrade Calculator, are you giving the earthworms directions?

窗边的异响更加嘈杂，同时伴随着玻璃的震动。
The clamor by the window crescendos.

上

孩子踮起脚尖，堪堪够着了正散发着微光的改线尺。
Even on tiptoes, the child barely reaches the faintly glowing calibrator.

遗憾的是，有此意图的显然不止他一个人。
Unfortunately, he is not the only one reaching for it.

？？？：吼吼——！
???: *roars*

基基图克的爪子挥舞特效

更不幸的是，生满鳞片的爪子要比稚嫩的手指健硕得多。
More unfortunate still, scaly claws prove mightier than little fingers.

“改线尺”：咔嚓——
"Ley Calibrator": *cracks*

终于，其他孩子也发现了这儿的纷争，他们拥着北方哨歌一同挤进了这座愈发逼仄的屋子。
The other children notice the tug-of-war and crowd around Windsong, squeezing into the increasingly cramped room.

北方哨歌：你们在做什么？——噢，我的改线尺！
Windsong: What's going on here? Ah, my calibrator!

？？？：嚼嚼！吼%@#@——！
???: *chews*

北方哨歌：鲸鱼骨骼，菱形利齿，双足短粗，双目萎缩，极其尖锐的鼻端……是基基图克[Kikituk]！
Windsong: The whale-like backbone, the diamond-shaped teeth, two short legs, with dim eyes, and an extremely sharp nose. That must be a Kikituk!

基基图克：嘶——！
Kikituk: *gasps*

北方哨歌：根据资料记载，它们最近的聚居地应该在离这几百公里的卡尔王地群岛……
Windsong: But their closest habitat should be Kong Karls Land, hundreds of kilometers away.

红棕色的鼻尖直勾勾地对着北方哨歌手上的新食物。
Its snout fixates on the new treat in Windsong's grasp.

她掏出嘎吱作响的扫描仪，赤色的线条疯涌了上来。
She pulls out the scanner, its gears whining as ley lines flood forth.

北方哨歌：红棕色的痕迹，它的体内富集了相当丰裕的地脉能量。很显然，这个家伙处于食物链的上位圈……
Windsong: Their marks on the map appear to be red, sort of reddish brown, and there's a large amount of ley energy accumulated around them. Clearly, they're high on the food chain.

北方哨歌：看来这儿的“小鱼”勾来的可不止一条大鱼。
Windsong: Seems like the "small fish" have attracted more than one "big fish."

她一脚把龇牙咧嘴的魔精踹了下去，抵住了窗台。
With a swift kick, she sends the grinning critter tumbling.

北方哨歌：小脑袋瓜们，躲到我身后——！
Windsong: Kids, get behind me!

基基图克们显然并不打算就此作罢，它们围着狭小的窗台打转，试图再次扑跃而上。
The undeterred Kikituks close in on the narrow ledge.

基基图克：嘶嘶——！
Kikituk: *hissing*

阿夫西维：哇啊！基基图克们在表演节目！
Avgust: Oh, oh! The Kikituks are giving a performance!

阿夫西维：鼻子歌唱，羽毛跳蹦蹦舞，肚皮跳摇摆舞……
Avgust: Their nose sings, their fur dances, and their belly shakes.

阿夫西维：咦……？
Avgust: Mm?

阿夫西维：它的耳朵为什么不表演节目呢？
Avgust: But why aren't their ears doing anything?

北方哨歌：阿夫西维，你在念叨些什么呢！——躲远点，它们可比奇肯恩凶猛一百倍！
Windsong: Avgust! What are you doing there? Stay back; those are not Qiqirn!

阿夫西维：可是，可是……
Avgust: But, but ...

他们都有着各自的、对方无法理解的焦急。
The meaning of both their messages is lost in the confusion.

阿夫西维：可是它们的耳朵一点儿也不听话，没有加入朋友们的舞蹈……
Avgust: But, but their ears are left behind. They-they can't join the dance.

阿夫西维：这样是没法得到表扬的——！
Avgust: Then they will not get their Alenka!

北方哨歌：耳朵……？
Windsong: Ears?

北方哨歌像是醒悟了什么，她死死盯着基基图克的脑袋。
Windsong, struck by her sudden revelation, fixes on the Kikituk's head.

它们藏在厚实的绒毛里，偶然露出的耳根显露出远甚其他部位的红棕色。
Beneath its tufts of plush fur lie well-hidden ears of a deeper color.

北方哨歌：Природа это числа и черты.
Windsong: Природа это числа и черты.

神秘学咒语攻击特效（线条形状）
After a brief incantation, lines converge in a beam that hits precisely on its ear.

短促的咒语后，一束线条迅速而准确地击中了耳根。

基基图克：呜……
Kikituk: *wails*

可怜虫吃痛地叫了起来。
The creature's cry pierces the air.

北方哨歌：看来这确实是它们的弱点……
Windsong: So that seems to be their weak spot.

北方哨歌：小家伙，干得不错。你的感知力比我想象得还要敏锐！
Windsong: Good job, little one. You're even more perceptive than I thought!

北方哨歌收起眼底的惊讶，拍了拍阿夫西维的脑袋。
Windsong pats Avgust's head.

北方哨歌：接下来嘛——
Windsong: Next ...

她露出一个危险而邪恶的微笑。
She reveals a dark and dangerous smile.

一道道白光接连不断地蹦跃着，像是盛放的烟花。

北方哨歌：哼哼～
Windsong: Hmph.

基基图克们终于放下了本就不属于它们的战利品，而后跃下窗台，转瞬便消失得无影无踪。
The Kikituks finally relinquish their ill-gotten gains, leaping down and away from the windowsill.

徒留一地浸润在口涎之中的改线尺碎片。
Leaving behind gnawed wet fragments of the ley calibrator.

北方哨歌：&%#！*【德涅斯特河东岸粗口】……这可是我为数不多的资产了。
Windsong: S**t! This was one of the last working instruments I had.

一束向日葵轻轻地拍了拍北方哨歌的肩膀。
A sunflower gently pats against Windsong's shoulder.

阿夫西维：别难过，北方哨歌。
Avgust: Don't be sad, Ms. Windsong.

阿夫西维：我们可以把它们种在土壤里。明年，它们就会长出许多朋友。
Avgust: If we plant them in the soil, many more will come out when spring comes.

北方哨歌：……谢谢你的安慰，阿夫西维。
Windsong: Heh. Thank you, Avgust.

彼得森：北方哨歌老师，我也能成为一名理线师吗？
Pyotr: Ms. Windsong, can I be a ley hunter too?

尼娜：如果我们也像您一样厉害，就能保护好您的尺子了……
Nina: If we were as good as you are, maybe we could've protected your machine.

彼得森：也一定能保护好我们的小镇。
Pyotr: And maybe we could protect our town.

北方哨歌转过头来，对上了无数双充满活力的眼睛。
Windsong turns her head, meeting many pairs of expectant eyes.

北方哨歌：小脑袋瓜们，理线师可不是什么值得骄傲的职业。
Windsong: Kids, ley hunting isn't a good profession.

北方哨歌：走上这条路，你们就得应付无数的质疑、鄙弃，还有堆成山的作业。
Windsong: If you become a ley hunter, you will have to deal with doubt from all your peers, even hatred, and homework that piles up to your roof.

尼娜：您说得不对，北方哨歌老师——来亚什基的大家都很团结。
Nina: Ms. Windsong, people in Rayashki are taught not to doubt or hate others. They would never hate you, or us!

彼得森：没错！
Pyotr: Exactly!

面前的孩子们熟悉而陌生。
The children of Rayashki are in some ways so strange to her.

某些无言的、由来已久的退缩悄然消失了。
Their courage and solidarity overcome her long-standing hesitation.

北方哨歌：……
Windsong: ...

一种更强烈的好奇感笼罩了她，像是一股无形的、难以抗拒的推力。
Her curiosity at them, at all of this, becomes a palpable force.

将她推向更具体的来亚什基。
One pulling her ever closer to Rayashki.

FR-08 工厂颂 / The Ode of Factory

小镇广场（童话一面）

尼娜：很高兴您愿意参观我们的小镇，北方哨歌老师。
Nina: I'm happy that you let us show you around, Ms. Windsong.

尼娜：自从小镇的外面成了魔精的游乐场，到这儿来的客人们就越来越少啦～
Nina: We haven't had many other visitors here since the critters started coming near the town.

阿夫西维：我见过微笑的盲眼女士，她有一台很漂亮的打字机……维拉说，她是“作家”。
Avgust: I met a blind lady once. She always smiles, and she has a pretty typewriter. Vila said she's a "writer."

阿夫西维：作家去很多小镇，把白纸涂得满满当当，像我一样。所以，我把画儿送给了她……
Avgust: The writer has been to many towns, and she fills up her papers with so much ink, just like I do! So, I made a drawing for her, too.

尼娜：她答应我们，会让更多人了解来亚什基！
Nina: And she promised us that she will tell more people to come visit Rayashki!

彼得森：其他地方的人们……会喜欢我们的小镇吗？
Pyotr: Will people from other places like it here?

阿夫西维努力地掰着手指头，但那些脑子里的模糊影像蹦蹦跳跳的，连半点也抓不住。
Images bounce around in Avgust's mind, just out of grasp.

北方哨歌：别的游客们呢……？
Windsong: What about your other visitors?

阿夫西维：他们手上拿着很多绿色和红色的方格纸，还有闪亮的小松饼。
Avgust: I remember they had green and red rectangular paper and some shiny cookies in their hands.

彼得森：那些人想要用古怪的东西换走我们的罐头和礼物，但不愿意和我们一起劳动。
Pyotr: They tried to trade us their silly paper so they could take our cans and things. They never wanted to work with their own hands.

彼得森：——我们才不欢迎这些客人呢！
Pyotr: And Rayashki doesn't like lazybones!

在这一点上，孩子们的脑袋起伏得相当一致。
On this, the children's heads bob in agreement.

北方哨歌：……
Windsong: ...

尼娜：北方哨歌老师，彼得森同学昨晚带领大家一起复习了“如何成为一个好导游”——我们会做好的～
Nina: Ms. Windsong, Pyotr got all of us together last night, and we read through our "how to be a good tour guide" guide. So we can guide you!

彼得森：北方哨歌老师只是有点儿奇怪，她可不是懒虫！
Pyotr: Ms. Windsong is just a bit strange. She's not lazy!

别扭的孩子转过头去，一丝涨起的红晕漫过了他的耳背。
The child hides his face, but the blush on his cheeks reaches up to his ears.

阿夫西维：红甜菜汤、布林饼，还有——欧拉季益！
Avgust: This time, I want borscht, blinchik, and oladyi!

帕索诺：咳咳，阿夫西维同学，别急着许愿奖励……我们还没帮上北方哨歌老师的忙呢～
Pasono: Ahem, let's not hurry on to our rewards, Avgust. We haven't helped Ms. Windsong yet.

阿夫西维：噢……好吧。
Avgust: Oh, right.

较长时间的黑屏

大大小小的身影灵巧地穿过一张张紧闭的铁门。
Figures, large and small, pass deftly through the once tightly-sealed iron door,

终于抵达了唯一一间门锁尚未锈蚀的工厂。
arriving at the only factory left, whose lock has not yet rusted over.

工厂内部（有工人版）

克努特：欢迎到我们的工厂来，北方哨歌姑娘——！
Knut: Good to see you at our little factory, Ms. Windsong!

北方哨歌：你好，先生。
Windsong: Hello, sir.

克努特：我都听孩子们说了，你希望了解来亚什基的历史，还有过去发生的怪事儿，是吗？
Knut: The kids have told me that you want to learn more about the history of Rayashki and the strange things that have happened in the past, yes?

北方哨歌：是的……但这不违规吗？
Windsong: I do. But would that be going against any rules?

克努特：当然不，好姑娘，我们可不是什么吹胡子瞪眼、在家里划拉出一大片禁地的老古董。
Knut: Most certainly not, miss. We're not some stubborn old goats that dismiss people for asking questions.

他大步走上前来。
He strides forward.

克努特：谢天谢地——你比那位刻薄的芝诺先生看起来要友善多了。
Knut: In fact, I'm relieved—it will be much easier to talk to you than that bitter fellow from Zeno.

克努特：那位来自芝诺的先生和他的武装小队匆匆地巡视了咱们的工厂，只一会儿就消失了。
Knut: He came to the factory with his armed squad, took a quick look around, and left even without a polite farewell.

克努特：——就像一阵让人直打哆嗦的西伯利亚冷风。
Knut: Like a whiff of cold breeze, that one.

克努特：废旧的老式机器、几百个年龄参差不齐的工人们……
Knut: These old, out-dated machines and hundreds of workers, young and old, each one a mouth to be fed.

克努特：只能闻见腥味的鬣狗当然看不上我们的宝贝，嘁！
Knut: They are certainly not a pretty sight to the eyes of that greedy hyena. Hmph!

北方哨歌：功利主义的脑袋……
Windsong: A pathetic number-crunching cretin.

小声的“诽谤”清晰地落在了对方的耳朵里。
The whispered insult creeps up to her listener's ear.

克努特：哈哈～我越来越欣赏你了，好姑娘！如果不是忙着生产，我们必须得喝几壶——！
Knut: Hahahaha! I'm starting to like you, miss! We would have much to talk about, perhaps over a drink, if only I didn't have to get on with my work!

好奇的目光显然不止落在这儿的工人身上。
A curious look around goes beyond the hard-laboring workers.

两侧紧闭的大门，周遭飘忽的灰尘，情况似乎远没有想象中乐观。
Tightly sealed doors and a thick layer of dust on aging machinery paint a less than optimistic picture.

克努特：你注意到了，对吧～
Knut: You can see what's going on here, right?

克努特：没什么好难过的……哪怕芝诺不再需要矿石加工厂了，咱们也能把它改造成别的厂子。
Knut: Don't feel sorry for us. Zeno might no longer need this ore processing factory, but we can make use of what's left of it.

克努特：别慌神，只要度过这段被魔精们围困的日子，后续的原料和矿材都能源源不断地运进来！
Knut: Once we get rid of the critters, we can arrange for other minerals or materials to be shipped to Rayashki for processing!

他搓了搓手，靠在某个生锈机器的外壳上。
He rubs his hands together, leaning against the shell of a rusted machine.

克努特：就是可惜了这些个好时候，多少宝贵的时间都被白白地浪费了！
Knut: It is a shame we've wasted so much of our good years, never preparing for these bad times.

克努特：要不是那些猖狂的小怪物，我们至少能到矿场去——那儿才是我们的天堂！
Knut: If those strange little monsters weren't there, we might be able to return to our mines. Ah, then, we'd really be able to turn things around.

北方哨歌：矿场……？
Windsong: About these mining sites ...

她手上的笔记本在不同的页码上迅速地翻了几个身，像是飞溅的火星。
Her notebook flutters rapidly, its pages turning as fast as a rolling flame.

北方哨歌：克努特先生，你在矿场里有挖出过什么新东西吗？——尤其是卢恩矿石以外的东西！
Windsong: Mr. Knut, have you ever found anything there? Other than runium ore?

克努特：唔……
Knut: Hmm.

克努特：我向你保证，绝对没有！哪怕是矿场里的一颗砂砾我都能认得出来……至于新矿石嘛，从来没见过。
Knut: Never! I know those sites like the back of my own hand. I've never seen any other minerals of any worth there.

心思远比外表看起来细腻的大叔显然发现了对方眼底的失落。
The rugged man seems to catch her disappointment, and far quicker than she'd expect.

克努特：别心急，姑娘……让我再想想！
Knut: But give it some time, miss. Well, give me some time.

克努特：早在几个月前，芝诺还在热心地跟咱们打交道的时候——他们在矿区倒是发现了些我们从没见过的小石头。
Knut: Just a few months ago, back when Zeno was still keen to work with us and not just ship us away, I remember they found some strange little pebbles.

克努特：那些黑乎乎的小石子儿嵌在张牙舞爪的小怪物们的指甲缝里。
Knut: Dark pebbles that were stuck in the claws of those little monsters.

克努特：很快，芝诺派来了军队，把它们抓了个干净，连点渣滓都没留给我们……
Knut: Zeno soon sent out some troops and caught all the monsters. They didn't leave a single one behind.

北方哨歌：——！
Windsong: ...!

克努特：后来，芝诺就再也没提过这茬了，我们也再也没有见过那些黑乎乎的小石头了。
Knut: We never heard about those pebbles again, nor have we found more of them in the mines.

克努特：再后来嘛，卢恩矿石被我们开采得一滴不剩，越来越多怪模怪样的魔精霸占了矿区。我们就再也没去过那儿了。那儿也基本废弃了。
Knut: And you know the rest. Now we've exhausted the runium, and more and more strange-looking critters have appeared. So it's not safe to go back there. We left them completely deserted.

北方哨歌：……请你看看这个，克努特先生。
Windsong: Please take a look at this, Mr. Knut.

北方哨歌唰唰地画了起来，对方热情地凑了上来。
Windsong sketches fervently as Knut lumbers towards her with a curious eye.

克努特：不不，它们的爪子比北极熊还粗好几个指节……
Knut: No, no, their claws were thicker than a polar bear's.

画

克努特：噢！——和它们长得很像！
Knut: Ah! But these are closer!

克努特：但是牙齿要比这更大一些，像是把用了好多年的称手矿锄。
Knut: These monsters had much larger teeth. They almost looked like old mining picks.

克努特：没有耳朵——！
Knut: And no ears!

北方哨歌：……难道是霍伊图克？！
Windsong: Could they be some kind of Hoituk?

克努特：没错，就是这样！
Knut: Yes! This one looks just like the creatures!

北方哨歌：好吧……又一条赶来吃“小鱼”的大鱼。
Windsong: If that's true, then it may be another "big fish" that has come here to feed.

克努特：我可不会骗你，小姑娘……很多工人都见过它。
Knut: It is true! You can ask around. Many of the other workers have seen it.

北方哨歌：很好，霍伊图克的性状是明黄质，难怪之前这张理线图上的明黄色线索始终找不着主人……
Windsong: So, the color of a Hoituk is bright yellow, and that matches with these bright yellow lines I've traced here on the map.

北方哨歌：它们生性喜爱挖掘，常常出没于0—50米之间的地下。既然它们出现在这儿，就说明——
Windsong: They are burrowing animals, often living as deep as 50 meters underground. So if they were here, that must mean ...

工厂内部（有工人版）

北方哨歌：这儿一定有尚未被发现的新资源。
Windsong: That there must be some undiscovered resource here.

北方哨歌小声地嘀咕着，但她愈发明朗的脸色显然瞒不过任何人。
The corners of her mouth curl as she mutters the words.

克努特：看来结果不错，好姑娘。
Knut: Talk of undiscovered resources would be music to our ears, miss.

北方哨歌：咳——现在还不能下定论……
Windsong: Ahem. I don't want to get your hopes up. It's still too early to draw any conclusions.

克努特：哈哈，可你的眉毛都快翘到天上去啦～
Knut: Hahaha! Yet, the corner of your mouth is suggesting the opposite!

北方哨歌：在真正的结论出来以前，我必须得再谨慎一点！
Windsong: I must be cautious before confirming there really is a new resource!

北方哨歌：但无论如何，这都是一道新的曙光……谢谢你，克努特先生。
Windsong: Nonetheless, it's a silver lining. Thank you, Mr. Knut.

克努特：没什么好谢的，姑娘——说不准到什么时候，你的研究也能帮上咱们的忙呢～
Knut: Think nothing of it, miss! Maybe one day, you and your research will return the favor.

北方哨歌：但愿会有这么一天。
Windsong: I will, if I can.

她伸出手去，对方以更热情的姿态迎了上来。
She reaches out a hand, and he shakes it heartily with warm strength.

北方哨歌：也祝你们的工厂能早日复工。
Windsong: I hope your work here can be resumed shortly.

克努特：哈哈～就算没有芝诺，大家也能靠着自己赶走魔精，把工厂重新开起来。
Knut: Don't worry about us! We will find a way to drive those critters away and start production once again.

克努特：咱们的工人们都在这，那些钢铁家伙们也在。
Knut: We have all our brothers and sisters with us, and these machines still run perfectly.

克努特：再说了，我们总在劳动，总在生活，一切都会好起来的。
Knut: As long as we continue to put in our best effort, there is no reason why things won't get better.

他拍了拍周围仍在发颤的巨大机械们，像是在与老友勾肩搭背。
He pats the trembling, coughing machines with affection, like embracing an old friend.

北方哨歌：……这儿的人们都像你这么乐观吗？
Windsong: Is this exceptionally positive spirit common with the people here?

克努特：当然，毕竟全世界也找不着几个来亚什基这样的地方了——
Knut: Well, can't blame us for that! There are very few places in the world like Rayashki.

克努特：每一个人都能靠着自己的双手劳动，享受食物、疗养假期……我们有数不过来的冰球比赛、成人教育，甚至还有乐器培训……
Knut: Here, everyone earns their food and their rest through working hard together. Then, outside of work—ice hockey, learning courses, even music lessons—not everyone is as lucky as us.

克努特：我们可不想让来亚什基荒废下去。
Knut: That is why we won't let Rayashki die.

克努特的声音越来越高昂，像一首快活的乐曲。
Knut's voice rises as if singing.

克努特：咱们手上的功夫、脑袋里的东西，谁都没法抢走它们。
Knut: With busy hands and open hearts, Rayashki will live on.

克努特：就像这儿到处都有的熔炼炉一样～
Knut: It will grow stronger, glowing as brightly as these furnaces!

某种炙热的事物在里面熊熊燃烧着。
Something brilliant indeed burns within those furnaces.

崭新的造物在许多件工装与汗滴的交融中悄然诞生。
A product greater than any ore or slag, emerging from the melding of purpose and sweat.

北方哨歌：……
Windsong: ...

停下的笔又一次动了起来。
The pen that stopped stirs once again.

但这次，她似乎想抓住某种更缥缈的东西。
But this time, she seems to be sketching out something far harder to picture.

北方哨歌：……我承认，来亚什基是个相当特别的地方。
Windsong: I have to say, Rayashki is truly a curious place.

北方哨歌喃喃自语。
Windsong mutters to herself.

北方哨歌：它拥有任何地方都没有的某种特别的东西。
Windsong: It has a spirit which I've never found elsewhere.

北方哨歌：是的，这正是过去的理线学始终不曾具备的……
Windsong: Yes. Perhaps that's what was missing from the study of ley lines in the past.

“咕噜——”
*gurgle*

某种古怪的声响打断了她的思考。
An odd sound interrupts her contemplation.

向日葵悄悄地盖住了肚皮。
The sunflower pats against the boy's belly.

阿夫西维：北方哨歌，你想认识帕特里基先生吗？
Avgust: Ms. Windsong, would you like to meet Mr. Patrik?

克努特会意地点头。
The friendly bear Knut nods with an understanding smile.

克努特：你们确实该去食堂了，好姑娘们、小伙子们……你们现在正是长身体的时候呢！
Knut: It's time to go to the canteen, boys and girls. Eat well, and you'll grow strong!

克努特：帕特里基可是个热情的老伙计，镇上最好的厨师。
Knut: Patrik knows how to feed you well. He's the best cook in town.

克努特：不过嘛，你最好躲着他点。
如果你不想被他拉着胡侃上一整晚的话……
Knut: But I would suggest you be careful with that one, if you don't want to get stuck with his endless chatter all night.

北方哨歌：咳，碍于之前毫无必要的担忧，我确实不曾涉足过食堂，那一块儿的数据至今还是空白的。
Windsong: I have never been to the canteen. I stayed out of that area in my previous "visits" to avoid unwanted trouble.

阿夫西维：嘿嘿～向布林同志出发！
Avgust: Heh-heh! Forward, to Comrade Blinchik!

克努特：祝健康，好姑娘——期待看到你的成果。
Knut: All the best, miss! I look forward to hearing good news from you.

克努特挥了挥手，又坐进了他最熟悉的铁皮壳里。
Knut waves them off before settling back into his world of metal.

人影远去，机器声重新充盈了这里。
The churning and wheezing of machinery replacing words.

较长时间的黑屏

热闹的职工食堂里人头攒动。
The canteen buzzes with the din of workers.

孩子们领着北方哨歌，穿梭在排列整齐的餐桌和椅子间。
The children weave through the busy hall, leading Windsong by the hand.

职工食堂【有很多的工人】

阿夫西维：这里是大家的食堂。
Avgust: This is our canteen.

阿夫西维：肚子饿的时候，我们就会来这里玩捉迷藏。
Avgust: We play hide-and-seek here when we're hungry.

阿夫西维：炖汤同志、土豆馅饼同志每次都是最先被找到的！
Avgust: Comrades Stew and Potato Piroshki are always the easiest to find!

阿夫西维：它们一点儿也不聪明。
Avgust: They are not very clever at hiding!

阿夫西维：但是布林饼同志擅长捉迷藏，它只会在每周五的晚餐才会被找到。
Avgust: But Comrade Blinchik is very good at the game. He can only be found at dinners on Friday.

北方哨歌：……
Windsong: ...

尼娜：我们有很多好吃的……土豆泥，煮土豆，还有土豆炖汤！
Nina: We have good food, like mashed potatoes, and boiled potatoes, and potato stew!

尼娜：帕特里基先生说，真正的好厨师，能够把最简单的食物做成大家都爱吃的美味！
Nina: Mr. Patrik said a good cook can turn even simple ingredients into delicious food!

尼娜望了望周围，小声地说了下去。
Nina casts a glance around her before she speaks softly.

尼娜：大人们很善良，他们吃掉土豆，把奶酪和沙拉留给我们……
Nina: The grown-ups are so kind to us. Sometimes they give us their cheese and salad, so they only have potatoes to eat.

彼得森：别难过，尼娜同学，你不也总是把阿廖卡分给大家吗？
Pyotr: Don't cry, Nina. Remember when you shared your Alenka with everyone?

彼得森：等长大了，我们也能吃掉更多的土豆！
Pyotr: When we grow up, it'll be our turn to help the grown-ups with their potatoes!

气氛似乎凝重了起来。
There is an awareness in them, a gravity few children possess at their age.

好在有人浑然不觉。
Thankfully, some do retain their blissful innocence.

阿夫西维：我们还有铁帽子节，帽子里藏着很多好吃的！
Avgust: We also have the tin-hat festival, when they gave us metal hats with food in them!

北方哨歌：……？
Windsong: ...?

彼得森：阿夫西维同学，它的名字叫“工人节”。
Pyotr: Avgust, it's called the Worker's Festival.

彼得森：小镇每个月都会举办工人节。所有人围坐在食堂一起唱歌，维拉老师会为我们拉手风琴……
Pyotr: We have it every month. Everyone must sit in a circle in the canteen and sing songs, and Ms. Vila plays the accordion for us.

彼得森：每个人能得到一份罐头，图桑卡罐头、沙拉罐头，或者鲱鱼罐头。
Pyotr: We each get a can with food in it. Sometimes it's tushonka, sometimes it's salad, sometimes sprats.

阿夫西维：是的，过完铁帽子节之后，大家把帽子埋在土里，黄的、红的、白的……帽子会冒出小苗，长出叶子！
Avgust: Yes, and after the tin-hat festival, we would bury our tin-hats in the ground. Yellow ones, red ones, and white ones. Then tiny trees will come out from them next year!

彼得森：我早就说过了！它们不是铁皮土豆，它们也不会长大！它们只是普通的罐头！……堆在一起是、是为了更方便地处理它们，防止雪地被污染。
Pyotr: I have told you many times! They are not tin seeds, and they don't grow into trees! They are just tin cans! We only bury them so they won't pollute the snow.

孩子们的争论冲击着北方哨歌的脑袋，令她头昏脑涨。
The subject of their debate flips a hidden switch in Windsong's mind. The revelation flicking into light.

北方哨歌：堆积的铁皮……食物香气……
Windsong: Piles of tin cans ... Food ...

她猛然展开了地脉能量图，指向了最后一片各色线条与痕迹交织的模糊区域。
She unfolds the ley energy map, pointing to the last blurred area of interwoven lines and traces.

特效，红笔圈出矿区位置

北方哨歌：那些罐头，它们最后都去了这儿吗——？！
Windsong: Those empty cans you mentioned—did you store them here?

帕索诺：噢，我记得那个地方……大人们挖了一个很大的坑，不过现在，它肯定被冰块和石头填满啦～
Pasono: Oh, I know this place. That's where the adults dug a big hole; they put some things inside. It's covered up with rocks and ice now.

尼娜：是的，就是那儿！每个月，大家都会把废弃的钢铁重新熔成一个个方块。
Nina: Yes, Pasono is right! That's where the grown-ups put all our old metal after they make them into little cubes!

尼娜：维拉老师说，这样能让我们的小镇和周围的土壤更加整洁。
Nina: Ms. Vila said it helps keep our town and the whole region clean.

尼娜：那儿有什么奇怪的吗……？
Nina: Why, what's wrong with that place?

北方哨歌：……！
Windsong: ...!

北方哨歌：好极了，那儿一定有不少尚未被发现的“大鱼”！
Windsong: I'm thrilled! There must be lots of "big fish" left to be found around there!

北方哨歌：只要将这个推论形成一份具备可行性的报告，说不定能说服芝……咳，说服他们加派人手！
Windsong: If I can write a report and provide a practical plan, maybe I can get Ze- ... I mean, I could request reinforcements!

收起浮窗

她及时地刹住了车，把那个算不上友好的名字咽回了肚子。
She halts, swallowing back the unfriendly name.

孩子众：太好啦！我们又能去外面玩了！
Kids: Yay! School trip! School trip!

北方哨歌：当然不行！这可不是什么益智游戏——你们都得给我乖乖地留在镇上，所有人，明白了吗！
Windsong: This is no trip, children! I'm not going there for a hike! You must stay in town and be good. That goes for every one of you! Understood?

显然，这一决议难以服众。
Her resolution fails before she even finishes.

抗议声此起彼伏，盖过了周围的一切声响。
The children's protests rise in a disordered chorus, drowning out all other surrounding sounds.

也包括头顶正滋滋作响的电流声。
Only to be matched by the static fizz of an announcement.

贝托尔特：咳咳——！
Bertolt: Ahem!

北方哨歌终于抓住了难得的救命稻草。
Windsong clutches at a thin straw of salvation.

北方哨歌：嘘～安静，小脑袋瓜们！
Windsong: Shh. Quiet, kids!

贝托尔特：亲爱的朋友们，我们将在明天8：00开始举行最后一次听证会。
Bertolt: Attention please. Tomorrow, at 8 in the morning, we will be holding our final hearing.

贝托尔特：本次会议旨在厘清各位对于小镇处理方案的建议与疑虑，欢迎朋友们按需参加。
Bertolt: In this meeting, we hope to finalize our next steps and answer any remaining questions. We look forward to seeing you there.

FR-09 比知识更重 / Heavier Than Knowledge

会议室

贝托尔特懒洋洋地靠在沙发椅上，只瞥了一眼来人，便迅速地低下了头。
Bertolt leans back in his armchair, casting a fleeting glance forward before his head falls.

贝托尔特：怎么——你也打算在芝诺谋个一官半职？
Bertolt: What's this? Are you planning on getting a job with Zeno, too?

北方哨歌：……？
Windsong: ...?

贝托尔特：尽管你在这儿呆了几个月的时间，但很遗憾，你并不在这次的“来亚什基人员特聘计划”的名单上。
Bertolt: It says here you've been staying in this town for months, but it seems you're not on our list for "Potential Recruitment from Rayashki."

他脸上的笑容仍然维持着既有的温和。
The smile on his face remains as affably saccharine as ever.

贝托尔特：我得提醒你，对于你们这样的学者来说，拿出成果才是最重要的。
Bertolt: I should remind you, for you researchers, what you produce tells much more about you than your "efforts."

北方哨歌：这正是我来找你的原因。
Windsong: That's precisely why I'm here.

贝托尔特：噢——？
Bertolt: Go on.

对方终于又舍得抬起那颗矜贵的头颅来。
He finally deigns to raise his head up.

北方哨歌：根据我这段时间的调查，我几乎能够确信，这儿确实存在着某种尚未被开采出的新资源。
Windsong: Based on the recent investigations, I'm confident that there is a new energy source in the area that has yet to be discovered.

贝托尔特：……
Bertolt: ...

贝托尔特：这就是你花了几个月的时间才调查清楚的事？我们早就告诉过你们每一个人，接受委派的小学者，来亚什基一定有我们要找的东西。
Bertolt: And that's it? We already believed there was something here when we sent you out in the first place!

贝托尔特：你的任务是找到它，而不是向我确认这个早有答案的事实。
Bertolt: You were sent here to find it. Instead, all you do is confirm what we already knew.

北方哨歌：可你说的什么“永动能源”只是传说，不是么？
Windsong: But you said that "perpetual energy" was just a myth, didn't you?

贝托尔特：这当然不只是传说，女士。要不然我们怎么会派你们过来呢……？
Bertolt: O-of course, it wasn't "just a myth," lady. Why else would we ask you to investigate here in the first place?

北方哨歌皱了皱眉头，那张失望的臭脸毫不掩饰地在她眼前晃来晃去。
Windsong gives a frown that slips, quite intentionally, into a scowl.

贝托尔特：除此之外，你还有什么需要报告的吗？
Bertolt: Do you have anything else to report?

北方哨歌：……我想申请芝诺的协助调查。你派遣一支武装军队将我送往矿区深处，我会在那里进行下一阶段的研究。
Windsong: No, but I do need your help. I will need an armed squad to come with me to the mining sites so that I can continue my investigations into this subject.

北方哨歌：时间上我无法保证，这得视你们派遣的人员数量而定……
Windsong: I'm afraid I don't know how long it will take. It also depends on the number of soldiers you can spare for the task.

贝托尔特：咳、咳咳——
Bertolt: Aha!

贝托尔特：我猜，你开了一个一点儿也不好笑的玩笑。
Bertolt: You have a terrible sense of humor.

北方哨歌：我很认真。况且，这不也关乎着你们的目标吗！
Windsong: I'm not being funny. You want more research on the new resource too, don't you?

贝托尔特：可是，学者女士，你知道这意味着什么吗——？
Bertolt: Ms. Windsong, do you really think this is even a remotely reasonable request?

贝托尔特：这儿的魔精早已泛滥成灾，为了你的一个虚无缥缈的理论，我们就得耗费巨大的人力与物力——
Bertolt: Critters are running rampant in the area, and you demand help to verify what is, as far as I can see, a highly questionable conclusion. Why should I waste Zeno's time and resources on this?

贝托尔特：甚至搭上辛苦培养的芝诺精锐？
Bertolt: Not to mention putting the lives of our soldiers at risk.

北方哨歌：如果你还有疑惑，可以看看我目前整理出的这些……
Windsong: If you have doubts, please take a look at these files.

学者急迫地翻找着自己的背包，对方毫不客气地摆了摆手。
The researcher dives her hands into her bag but is met with a wave of dismissal.

贝托尔特：让我想想，是你的“理线学”告诉你的吗？
Bertolt: And let me guess, you learned all this from your "study of ley lines"?

北方哨歌：……
Windsong: I ...

贝托尔特：据我所知，这应该只是一门在“神秘学会考评会”和“人类科研课题立项”中几度没能通过的民间学派，没有成果，缺乏官方背书，甚至连研究员都没几个……
Bertolt: To date, the theory of ley lines has neither been approved by the "Arcane Study Review Association," nor accepted by the "Project Assessment of Human Science and Technology." It has zero academic achievements, zero endorsements, and aside from the questionable example in front of me—zero researchers.

北方哨歌：……这只是暂时的。
Windsong: That's all only a temporary setback.

贝托尔特：我同情你的遭遇，但很遗憾，在你拿出切实可行的证据之前，芝诺没法向一位编外的草根学者提供过多的帮助。
Bertolt: Ms. Windsong, I sympathize with the awkward situation I have put you in. However, Zeno simply cannot afford to waste resources on a proposal without any solid evidence.

北方哨歌：我会给你们成果的，只要你们先预支一点儿帮助。我保证！
Windsong: I will give you something; all I need is a bit of help upfront. I promise!

眼前的人没有丝毫动摇，但北方哨歌同样不愿放弃。
The look in his eyes is glazed, bored, but Windsong does not falter.

北方哨歌：协助小镇解决魔精问题，不也正是芝诺向这儿的人们提供的援助方案么？……这不过是举手之劳罢了！
Windsong: Did you not come here to deal with these critters? Then what's the fuss about? Can't you deal with them while accompanying me to these mining sites as well?

贝托尔特瞪大了眼睛，像是听到了些什么了不得的消息。
Bertolt's eyes widen, now unglazed, as he rises.

他在房间里来回踱步。许久，他终于挪到了窗台。
He paces silently, drifting at first, then proceeding to the windowsill.

贝托尔特：噢，天真的女士，你一定是误会了什么。
Bertolt: I'm afraid you've got our intentions altogether wrong.

窗户合拢起来，连风声也透不进来了。
The windows close tightly, sealing the last whispers of wind from the outside.

复位

贝托尔特：芝诺的目标从来都只有一个，就是传说中的永动能源。
Bertolt: Zeno is here for one thing only: a source of perpetual energy.

贝托尔特：这也是你的任务，找出它，而不是在毫无成果的时候向我提要求，我们可不是什么落魄学者的慈善资助机构。
Bertolt: This is what you have been tasked to find, with the resources you were given. We won't approve any further requests until you have a solid lead. We aren't paying you for a charity mission.

北方哨歌：……！
Windsong: ...!

北方哨歌：所以你们从来都不打算清理这儿的魔精灾害，也只堪堪派出了这么一支行动小队……就为了无声无息地彻底掌控这里？！
Windsong: So, then, you never planned on controlling the critters here. The squad you brought here was to control the town?!

贝托尔特：我们不希望引起其他组织的注意，显然，这也不是什么适合与他人分享的成果，不是么？
Bertolt: A force sufficient to deal with critters would have attracted unwanted attention from our rivals. It is not in our interests to share this town or its resources. I'm sure you can see that.

北方哨歌：哪怕最后找到了原矿，你们也不准备保留这座小镇……
Windsong: So, even if we do find the resource for you, you won't leave this town or its people alone.

贝托尔特：这可是人人觊觎的神秘学的终极能源之一，怎么能让一群化外之民来负责呢？
Bertolt: We're talking about the ultimate energy source of arcanum. Do you think we will just walk away and leave it to be squandered by a bunch of ignorant peasants and miners?

北方哨歌：可耻的说法……
Windsong: You should be ashamed of yourself!

贝托尔特的笑意终于收敛起来。
Bertolt's smile fades like a bad aftertaste.

贝托尔特：后续的处理方案并不在你的职权范围以内，你操心过头了，我们早就安排了合适的人选。
Bertolt: What we're going to do with Rayashki should be of no concern to you. We have made every arrangement for them.

贝托尔特：在真正的结论得出前，我们仍会努力地为当地居民提供力所能及的帮助。
Bertolt: We aren't monsters. Before the final decision is made, we will continue to help the locals as much as we can.

贝托尔特：当然，我们同样不会忽略对你的关怀。
Bertolt: Including you.

在草根学者心生异议之前，老练的负责人自然地将话题转到了一个更诱人的方向。
Before the wild-eyed researcher can voice her dissent, Bertolt steers the conversation with well-practiced ease.

他从书页之间抽出了一张漂亮的文书，沿着桌面滑向了北方哨歌。
Wordlessly, he draws out an attractive-looking document and slides it across the table toward her.

北方哨歌：这是……？！
Windsong: Is this ...?!

贝托尔特：别太惊讶，这不正是你心心念念的么？
Bertolt: You seem surprised. Isn't it what you have always wanted?

贝托尔特：想象一下吧，当它盖上芝诺的章，你就能在任何一所大学畅通无阻地开设你想要讲授的课程。
Bertolt: With Zeno's endorsement, you will be able to teach your program in any university.

北方哨歌：……
Windsong: ...

贝托尔特：芝诺已经向你表示足够的诚意了。
Bertolt: We have prepared this gesture of our good faith in you.

贝托尔特：别指望那支武装小队的协助，他们有更重要的事得完成。
Bertolt: Now it's your turn to show yours. Forget about an armed squad. They have more important things to do.

贝托尔特：依靠你自己，朋友。向我们展示你的本事，给我们带来你最真实可信的成果，而不是一沓沓枯燥无味的文书。
Bertolt: You're on your own, my friend. But prove to us that you can do this job, and bring us the best answer you can give.

收起浮窗

灰白色的信笺灼痛北方哨歌的指头，令她不自觉地颤抖。
The pale letterhead stings Windsong's fingertips.

贝托尔特：事成之后，它自然归你了。
Bertolt: And this piece of paper will be yours when you complete your mission.

北方哨歌：……我明白了。
Windsong: I understand.

贝托尔特：很好，也祝你好运，女士。
Bertolt: See that you do. Good luck out there, Ms. Windsong.

逐渐走远的脚步声+关门声
缓慢黑屏

雪地上的脚步声迅速而坚定，它孤独而勇敢地朝着某个早已被占领的王国而去。
Deep footprints, now half-buried in fresh snow, trace the path of the researcher's determined march behind her.

全屏大雪

落魄学者的勇气、热情与她的体温一同，于暴雪中迅速地冷却了下来。
Her courage, passion, and body temperature rapidly cooling against the blizzard.

北方哨歌：难道我疯了吗——？
Windsong: Was I out of my mind?!

北方哨歌：芝诺只是在敷衍我……就像是对付一头只擅长拉磨的愚笨驴子，几根胡萝卜就能让它围着磨盘团团转！
Windsong: He was just trying to get me out of his office. He threw a carrot out of the window, and I chased right after it like a blinded mule!

北方哨歌：可——
Windsong: Still ...

她小心翼翼地抚过衣袋里的那张薄薄的信纸。
Her hand lingers on the paper nestled within her pocket.

北方哨歌：这根胡萝卜实在太香甜了……
Windsong: Maybe this "carrot" is too good to let go.

认命般的叹息后，她小心翼翼地向着更深的地方摸索着。
With a sigh of resignation, she reaches deeper.

北方哨歌：现在，只要我补充好缺漏的证据，哪怕一点儿都好……芝诺就会相信我的理论，后续的研究也能够迎刃而解！
Windsong: Focus. Once I fill the gaps in my data, I will be able to pitch it to Zeno, and all subsequent research won't be a problem anymore!

北方哨歌：霍伊图克最主要的食物来源是地底的矿石。人工改造后的铁质物对它们而言仅仅能够果腹，绝不可能吸引它们横渡冰洋来到这儿。
Windsong: The primary food sources for Hoituk are raw minerals underground. Those processed metals only keep them from starving to death. They wouldn't have gone across any icy ocean just to gnaw on old equipment and trash.

北方哨歌：只需要再找到一些它们的活动痕迹，观察它们族群的整体状况，说不定就能知道是否有足以供给它们生存的其他食物。
Windsong: All I need to do is find a trace of their activities so that I can learn about their current conditions and, from there, locate their other food sources.

北方哨歌：冷静点儿，霍伊图克生性温和，它们很少会主动攻击人类……只要我再小心一点儿便好。
Windsong: Stay calm. Hoituk are gentle creatures. They rarely attack humans. I just need to be cautious.

遗憾的是，现实问题显然要比自我斗争复杂得多。
Her internal struggles will have to wait, as more practical problems loom larger.

疾风与暴雪几乎掩盖了这儿的一切，只有零星的几个罐头壳滚落在地。
The blizzard has covered almost everything, leaving a few cans to poke out, rattling along with the wind.

北方哨歌：&%#！*【德涅斯特河东岸粗口】！
Windsong: Crazy! Whoa!

北方哨歌：好吧，换个思路——
Windsong: Alright, change of direction.

北方哨歌：向下挖掘，扫描这片区域的线性结构，确定这边区域的地脉能量延伸方向……就像之前在锡尔伯里山那样～
Windsong: If I were to look down instead of looking forward, maybe I should scan the area and follow where the ley energy is leading. Just like I did at Silbury Hill.

北方哨歌：咳——当然，它们的结局最好有所差异。
Windsong: Ahem! Of course, I hope the outcome will be different this time.

她环顾四周，一望无际的雪地没过了能见的所有土地，也没过了她的仪器。
She surveys the expanse of boundless snow.

北方哨歌：在这之前，先清理出一片干净的区域——
Windsong: Before all that, I need to clear out this place.

北方哨歌：Природа это числа и черты.
Windsong: Природа это числа и черты.

咒术1

北方哨歌：Природа это мозаика цветов.
Windsong: Природа это мозаика цветов.

咒术2

土壤像是成了海边翻涌的浪花，抖落身上覆满的雪渍。
The soil churns in slurry waves along the seashore, a mix of mud, snow, and stone.

剧烈的振响迅速地传了出去，但她丝毫未觉。
A violent resonance spreads beyond it, one to which she is completely unaware.

霍伊图克？：嘶%#！嘶嘶%@——！
Hoituk?: *hiss*

显然，它们对领土遭到的破坏相当不满。
Clearly, these creatures harbor some discontent at these scars on their land.

北方哨歌：糟了！这儿的动静似乎闹得太大了。
Windsong: Shoot! Now I've done it.

北方哨歌：彻底退化的掘矿齿，三指长的锐牙——你们不是霍伊图克？！
Windsong: Those vestigial digging teeth, the three-fingers-long tearing teeth—these are not Hoituk!

霍伊图克？：嘶！
Hoituk?: *hiss*

它们张牙舞爪，像是在进行某种进食前的神秘仪式。
They bare their teeth and claws in a rhythmic way, like a primitive pre-feeding ritual.

北方哨歌：这副便于泅渡的鳞翼，你们是——
Windsong: These scaled wings must be for swimming. Then you must be ...

北方哨歌：基基图克的奥尔加异种！
Windsong: Mutant Kikituk from the Olga area!

北方哨歌：……
Windsong: ...

北方哨歌：你们应该逡巡在奥尔加海峡，捕食那儿洄游而过的鲑鱼与鲸，而不是待在这儿！
Windsong: You should be at the Olga Strait, hunting for migrating salmon and whales, not here!

基基图克异种：吼&*#——！
Mutant Kikituk: *roars*

基基图克们再也按捺不住，朝着北方哨歌的方向扑了上来。
The Kikituks can no longer contain themselves and pounce towards Windsong.

北方哨歌瘫坐在地，大口地喘着粗气。
Windsong sits slumped on the ground, gasping for air.

基基图克们余怒未消，迟迟不愿离去。
Their fury has not yet abated; the creatures hold their ground.

北方哨歌：……
Windsong: ...

北方哨歌：你们怎么会出现在这儿？难道你们也有什么复兴人类捕食计划的远大航海目标吗？
Windsong: Why would you come here? What inspired you to trek across the ocean, just to hunt for humans?

遗憾的是，对方似乎无法理解她的抗议。
Her aggressors show no signs of understanding.

它们垂下长短不一的口涎，向着食物的方向步步紧逼。
They inch closer, drool drooping from their mouths.

北方哨歌：该死的，挖掘的齿爪退化之后，它们的触觉比霍伊图克敏锐得多了……
Windsong: D**n it! It seems, while their claws and teeth have degraded, their reflexes much quicker than a Hoituk's.

北方哨歌：哪怕是采用了人类减震工艺的采线仪，也逃不过它们的触觉。
Windsong: They perceived my approach, even though I used my ley line reader as a dampener.

某种由远及近的轰鸣声盖过了她的叹息。

飞过屏幕的子弹与一侧的开枪火光
A rumble, distant then near, drowns out her sigh.

热烈的枪声呼啸而来，准确地命中一只龇牙咧嘴的基基图克。
A gunshot hammers out nearby, the shot landing on one of the snarling Kikituk.

枪栓再一次被拉响，又一只基基图克落荒而逃。
The bolt is drawn back. The familiar sound sends another scurrying away.

北方哨歌：——！
Windsong: ...!

叶甫根尼：别愣在那儿！
Evgeni: Get out!

叶甫根尼：撤出那片区域，我会掩护你！
Evgeni: Get out of here! I'll cover you!

枪声持续了许久，落荒而逃的基基图克们终于放弃了它们的堡垒。
More gunfire thunders, over and over, until the last Kikituk abandons their position.

奔跑
喘气

北方哨歌：感谢你的救援，先生。
Windsong: Thank you, sir.

紧接着，她又像是突然想起了什么。
Composing herself, the researcher immediately returns to her work.

北方哨歌：那片……罐头园，它在这儿么？
Windsong: Evgeni, the kids told me about a can pile. Is it nearby?

叶甫根尼：罐头园？
Evgeni: Can pile?

他皱了皱眉，瞥了瞥不远处那片被翻得七零八落的雪堆。
He furrows his brow, motioning with his eyes to some hilly snowdrifts nearby.

叶甫根尼：或许是因为附近的野兽，又或者是那些不知道从哪儿冒出来的小怪物——我们埋下的铁块早就被啃食殆尽了。
Evgeni: They must be talking about our waste metal. I'm afraid it's gone, Ms. Windsong. Maybe animals dug it all out, or maybe those little monsters ate it.

北方哨歌：它们对铁块的袭击发生在卢恩矿石枯竭之前吗……？
Windsong: Do you know if that happened before or after the runium mines ran dry?

叶甫根尼：也许吧……
Evgeni: I'm not sure.

叶甫根尼皱了皱眉，扫了一眼那些东倒西歪的仪器们。
Evgeni's brow furrows again, this time casting a surveying glance at her scattered instruments.

叶甫根尼：……你不该来这儿，这儿没有你要找的东西。
Evgeni: You shouldn't be here. There's nothing of value to find in this place.

叶甫根尼：更不应该使用这些神秘学气味过重的装备。
Evgeni: And you're not supposed to be using this arcane equipment here, either.

叶甫根尼：对付这些凶悍的小怪物，应该用更传统的办法……否则，它们只会呼朋引伴，永远没个消停。
Evgeni: We have a better way to deal with these fierce little monsters. What you're doing will just attract more of them.

对方的说法震撼了她的认知。
His statement rattles her.

北方哨歌：你们能驱赶这儿的基基图克——？！
Windsong: You can drive away the Kikituks?!

叶甫根尼：不行，我们没多少家伙了，芝诺没有给我们送来任何新装备，更别说其他重武器了。
Evgeni: Not anymore. We don't have much left to fight them off with. Zeno didn't bring any equipment for our team, let alone any weapons.

叶甫根尼：你还是趁早离开这儿吧……
Evgeni: Go. Leave before it's too late.

他小心地检查手上的步枪，零件们咔哒咔哒，像是在接受检阅。
He carefully checks the rifle in his hand.

北方哨歌：如果我不愿放弃呢——？
Windsong: What if I don't want to just give up?

对方的动作滞缓了下来。
Evgeni slows down, making his inspection come across as even more deliberate.

叶甫根尼：我记得你的居留申请，一位研究学者。
Evgeni: I've seen your residence application. You say you are a researcher.

叶甫根尼：你的学识理应支撑你做出更聪明的决定，而不是继续从事一项绝无结果的危险研究。
Evgeni: Then you should be clever enough not to go down a fruitless and dangerous path.

北方哨歌：……我承认，这份莽撞是出于我的一己私利。但无论如何，这不是什么可以随意摒弃的东西——
Windsong: I admit that what I'm doing here is reckless, and maybe I'm just motivated by my own selfish interests. But I can't just walk away from my commitments.

北方哨歌：你在来亚什基生活了如此之久，关于“理想”的认知，你应该要比我清楚得多。
Windsong: You have lived in Rayashki for a long time. You know what "commitment" means here much better than I do.

对方的脸色变了变，他背过身去。
There is a shift in his face as he turns away from her.

北方哨歌：正如这儿的人们热爱这片土地，他们也从未打算离开。
Windsong: I won't give it up so easily, just like the people here won't give away their land like nothing.

叶甫根尼：只是种令人失望的顽固罢了。
Evgeni: It's stubbornness. That's all.

北方哨歌：……？
Windsong: ...?

叶甫根尼：他们应该在更广阔的地方发挥才能，而不是继续留在这里徒劳地牺牲。
Evgeni: They should have gone to other places and put their talents to good use, rather than staying here to fight for nothing.

北方哨歌坚决地昂起头来。
Windsong holds a stare, lifting her chin to match up to him.

北方哨歌：所以你任由芝诺摆布这儿的一切，什么也不做——你真的了解他们么？
Windsong: Is that why you gave away the town so easily to Zeno? Do you really even know your neighbors?

叶甫根尼：我们共事了数十年。你不觉得这个问题太可笑了么？
Evgeni: I have lived and worked together with them for decades. Don't be ridiculous. I just ...

叶甫根尼：……我认可芝诺的决议。
Evgeni: I agree with Zeno's perspective.

北方哨歌：啧——我走过很多地方，也见过不少像你这样的“家长”，打着为所有人好的名头，然后自顾自地付出，把一切都决定好。
Windsong: Tsk. I've been to many places, and I have encountered many people like you—stuck-up "leader types," making decisions on behalf of other people because "it's what's good for them."

叶甫根尼：无论是他们，还是你，都应该回到更适合你们的地方去。
Evgeni: And they should listen. Just as you should now.

那杆始终高昂的枪屹立着。
He braces the rifle as he motions her back and scans the near horizon.

叶甫根尼：对所有人负责，这才是我的责任。
Evgeni: It's my responsibility to protect everyone, to do right by them.

叶甫根尼：我会说服他们的，就在明天的全员大会。
Evgeni: I will make them see it tomorrow at the hearing.

北方哨歌：……
Windsong: Ah!

FR-10 仅有的日子 / The Only Days Left

小镇广场（现实一面）

人们从四面八方鱼贯而入。
People stream in from all directions.

不约而同地站在了小镇命运的关口。
They stand now at the crossroads of the town's fate.

贝托尔特：咳咳——
来亚什基的朋友们，你们好。
Bertolt: *clears throat* People of Rayashki, my dear friends, good day to you all.

贝托尔特：在过去的两天里，芝诺完成了对这一区域的全方位危险评估与价值考察。同时，我们举办了关于小镇处理方案的听证会。
Bertolt: Over the past two days, Zeno has assessed the potential risks and benefits in the area, and held hearings on what should be done about the future of this town.

贝托尔特：我们的听证会似乎响应者寥寥，这似乎说明了一件确凿的事实：各位对芝诺的决定相当信任。
Bertolt: Our hearings saw very limited attendance. We've taken that to be a gesture of approval.

贝托尔特：当然，我们仍需感谢叶甫根尼先生在此次行动中的大力支持与配合。
Bertolt: Mr. Evgeni has put in a great effort helping to make these changes happen. We all owe him a great deal. Thank you, sir.

他向一旁的叶甫根尼致意。
He motions to Evgeni at his side.

一页崭新的文件展示在所有人的眼前，芝诺的印章刻意地盖在了最显眼的位置。
A freshly printed document unfurls before all present, Zeno's seal stamped deliberately in the most prominent position.

贝托尔特：请相信，我们已做出了对各位而言最妥当的安排。
Bertolt: Please believe that we have made the best decision we could for you.

贝托尔特：首先，来亚什基的卢恩矿石已经枯竭，在未来百年之内已无再生可能。
Bertolt: We all know the runium here has run dry, and the land has been exhausted of all further material wealth, now and into the foreseeable future.

贝托尔特：受此影响，当地的矿石加工厂已无继续运行的必要。
Bertolt: As a result, your local processing factory has lost its intended purpose.

贝托尔特：最重要的是，因全球形势的影响，芝诺大幅调整了对外政策。相比于继续维系缺少价值的关系，我们期待更有分量的合作对象。
Bertolt: What's more, Zeno has changed our cooperation strategy. Though your town's loyalty will never be forgotten, we must have a sober-minded view of its costs and benefits.

贝托尔特：综上所述，我们得出了最终的结果——
Bertolt: To sum up, our final decision is that ...

贝托尔特：来亚什基已无作为芝诺合作方的必要性与价值。
Bertolt: We will be ending operations and all future cooperation between Zeno and Rayashki.

一记重锤在广场上摆荡着，振出阵阵风声。
A heavy hammer swings in the square, producing a whistling wind.

克努特：咳，贝托尔特先生，您可能了解得还不够仔细。我们不止有卢恩矿石，我们有许多别的工厂……
Knut: Well, Mr. Bertolt, you have just got here; perhaps you didn't have enough time to get to know us well enough. Rayashki's value is not just in our runium. We have many other factories, too.

热切而急迫的话语从四面八方涌来。
Urgent words of protest flood in from all sides.

贝托尔特：是的，你们有砖墙厂、有发电厂、有搬运铲车，甚至还有运输带，可这一切都建立在开采卢恩矿石的基础上——
Bertolt: Yes, you have a brick factory, a power plant, many forklifts, a smattering of conveyor belts. But all these were all built and suited for only the processing of runium ore.

贝托尔特：但现在，它们已经失去了意义。
Bertolt: Without the ore, they simply have no benefit to us.

镇民众：……
Residents: ...

人群窃窃私语，不同的声音在一起呜鸣，像是滚开的沸水。
The crowd murmurs, voices bubbling up and simmering like boiling water.

贝托尔特敲了敲桌子，遏住了这一势头。
Bertolt raps the table, ending the broil.

贝托尔特：以上是对于来亚什基当下状况的说明。根据这一状况，我们为来亚什基准备了两套方案。
Bertolt: Now that you have full knowledge of the situation and our intentions, we want to assure you that your loyalty has not been forgotten, so we have generously prepared two choices for the future of Rayashki.

会场短暂地沉寂了下来。
The assembly hushes.

贝托尔特：芝诺认为，各位具有宝贵的坚定意志与非比寻常的技术能力。这是一种值得敬佩的精神……
Bertolt: Firstly, Zeno believes that you have many valuable qualities. The determination and skills you've shown in the past year of our cooperation have proved that your people can be a great asset to us.

贝托尔特扫过许多人的面庞。
Bertolt scans across the faces looking back at him.

贝托尔特：在座的不少人都符合芝诺的入职标准与需要。
Bertolt: Indeed, many of you already meet the entrance requirements to join Zeno.

贝托尔特：因此，我代表芝诺军备学院，向你们发出最诚挚的邀请——
Bertolt: Therefore, on behalf of Zeno Arms Academy, I wish to extend a heartfelt invitation to you.

贝托尔特：希望各位能够与我们一同撤离来亚什基，到芝诺各个分部任职。
Bertolt: Leave Rayashki. Join us and work for one of our other branches as members of Zeno.

克努特：什么意思？……难道芝诺打算彻底收拢这儿的所有人吗？
Knut: What are you saying!? You want us to abandon our home for some promise of a job?

贝托尔特：冷静点，克努特先生。我更愿意称之为一项基于理性的组织优化安排，一份为世界和平而出力的新机会。
Bertolt: Calm down, Mr. Knut. This is not about abandoning your home. It's about joining us in our efforts to contribute to world peace. Through a more optimized allocation of manpower.

镇民Ⅰ：你打算把我们所有人都糊弄到芝诺去——？
Resident I: So you're just going to pack us all up and ship us away to work for Zeno?

贝托尔特：……你误会了，女士。
Bertolt: You misunderstand, madam.

收起浮窗

他合拢文件夹，瞥了瞥北方哨歌身旁的孩子们。
He closes the folder, looking conspicuously towards the children beside Windsong.

贝托尔特：在芝诺，每年因未通过考核而淘汰的人员约占整体人数的4%，而因公牺牲的更多……
Bertolt: Every year, Zeno dismisses 4% of our employees because they failed to pass our rigorous work reviews. And the number of our colleagues that are killed in the line of duty is even larger still.

贝托尔特：芝诺的工作并非娱乐场，我们无时无刻不在面对着战火、纷争以及随时可能发生的地区冲突。
Bertolt: Working for Zeno is a privilege, not a gift.

贝托尔特：很遗憾，芝诺并不是什么滥造滥收的慈善机构，仅仅有一小部分人能够有机会入职芝诺。
Bertolt: That's why only a small number of you will be allowed to come and work for us.

镇民Ⅱ：什么……？
Resident II: What?

贝托尔特：当然，按照《视界线公约》第二章中关于“神秘学家权利保障条例”部分的第58条细则——
Bertolt: Now, according to Article 58 in the section on "protection of arcanist rights" signed at the Event Horizon Convention ...

贝托尔特：我们会在后续为没有被选上的镇民们提供基本的生存保障，将他们转移到就近的救济点，直到后续相关福利机构的介入。
Bertolt: We will provide basic supplies for any residents who haven't been offered a position with Zeno. They will be transferred immediately to the nearest relief station until our social workers contact them for further arrangements.

克努特：把小镇的孩子和老人统统扔到一边，送去某个谁也不清楚的福利院、养老院……
Knut: So then, you're suggesting you will send our children and elderly away to some kind of refugee station?

克努特：——然后咱们乖乖地当芝诺的乖狗狗？
Knut: And the rest of us must go to work for Zeno without any questions?

克努特：你**的【来亚什基粗口】！在说什么胡话呢！
Knut: You ****! This is total rubbish!

他愤怒地挥舞着双臂，撞开抵在前面的芝诺卫兵。
He waves off, then pushes aside the Zeno soldier in front of him.

芝诺卫兵：先生，请你冷静。
Zeno Soldier: Sir, please lower your voice.

贝托尔特：……顺带一提，克努特先生，就芝诺的标准而言，您的履历相当出色。
Bertolt: Well. You would be glad to know that your work experience in particular is valuable to Zeno, Mr. Knut.

他拍了拍克努特的肩膀，对方毫不客气地甩开了他。
He attempts a pat on Knut's shoulder, who shrugs him off.

但贝托尔特似乎全然不在意，他不紧不慢地展开了那份文件。
But Bertolt acts entirely unfazed, unfolding the document further.

贝托尔特：除此之外，我们同样准备了第二个方案。
Bertolt: If you're not interested in our first plan, we have another.

贝托尔特：如当地民众的撤离意愿较低，据前述分析，来亚什基本身仍拥有矿石加工厂基础，改造成本较低，且地处北极地区，隐秘性强——
Bertolt: If the residents in the area prove reluctant to relocate, Zeno can offer another alternative. As stated earlier, Rayashki is a remote town that possesses some significant industrial infrastructure.

贝托尔特：可作为新的军工厂设址地。
Bertolt: Therefore, it could be considered an ideal location for a new complex of arms factories.

维拉：……！
Vila: ...!

贝托尔特：同时，扩建码头也已列入优先选择项之一，这一调整属于芝诺全球海港战略的一环。
Bertolt: There would be a need to substantially upgrade the Rayashki wharf. To turn it into one of the seaports Zeno plans to build across the globe.

贝托尔特：除此之外，无线电广播基地的设计同样在我们的考虑之中。
Bertolt: Additionally, a radio station will be constructed within the town.

贝托尔特：建立稳定的信号收发系统利于维护北极地区的局势稳定，协调这一区域的国际关系。
Bertolt: Which will better facilitate our communication throughout the Arctic region so as to stabilize and coordinate with other powers in the area.

贝托尔特：……
Bertolt: ...

贝托尔特：接下来，我将为各位发放意愿登记书，请各位择选出自己更期望的方案……
Bertolt: We will now be passing out forms, listing the options I've presented. Please fill them in with your choice.

收起浮窗

维拉：你打算让来亚什基彻底成为芝诺的附庸吗？
Vila: So your only other option is to turn Rayashki into some kind of military base under Zeno's control?

贝托尔特：很遗憾，你可以这么理解。
Bertolt: I won't put it so bluntly, but you're not incorrect.

贝托尔特：我们得把有限的人力资源投入在更关键的地区，而不是芝诺以外的地方。
Bertolt: Our resources, as much as anyone's, are limited, and they must be put to good use. We cannot afford to waste them on strategically usele- ... costly people and places.

贝托尔特：如果你们需要芝诺的帮助，那总得付出点什么，对吧？
Bertolt: If you want Zeno to help you, you should be able to give us something in return, don't you agree?

他满意地合上了方案书。
He folds the proposal again with satisfaction.

人群的喧嚣与抗议被卫兵们远远地隔开了。
The crowd heaves in protest, held at bay by the soldiers around Bertolt.

克努特：叶甫根尼，这就是你说的最好的选择——？
Knut: So, Evgeni, this is "the best choice" you made for all of us?

贝托尔特：咳咳，我必须为叶甫根尼先生辩解几句……他是一位相当尽责的军人，也很希望能为他优秀的同胞做一些力所能及的事。
Bertolt: Ahem! I must speak in Mr. Evgeni's defense. He is committed to his duty and only wishes to do what he can for his compatriots.

克努特：啐！你为了自己口袋里的几个子儿，就把大伙给卖了个好价钱？
Knut: Shameless! All you've done is sold us out!

镇民Ⅰ：说得好，克努特！
Resident I: You tell them, Knut!

镇民Ⅱ：依我看，这儿的风可真够大的！要不然叶甫根尼的脑子怎么会被吹糊涂了呢！
Resident II: Do you think it's getting a bit windy lately? Clearly, with all the hot air in Evgeni's head, his mind has been blown away!

无数的目光落在叶甫根尼的身上。失望，难过，或许更加复杂。
Countless eyes fall on Evgeni. Disappointment, sadness—perhaps something more complex.

叶甫根尼：……
Evgeni: ...

叶甫根尼：我向你们保证，我的行为不涉及我任何的私人利益。
Evgeni: I swear to you, I am not doing this out of my own interest.

叶甫根尼：同志们，你们有更好的地方可去，有更远大的使命可以实现。
Evgeni: Comrades, there are many better places in this world, and you have better purposes to fulfill.

叶甫根尼：你们不应该在这儿虚度……
Evgeni: You shouldn't waste your time here.

克努特：呸——
Knut: Bah!

愤怒的潮水拍打在他的脸上。
The bear of a man puffs up with anger.

贝托尔特：朋友们，请冷静。是时候让理性回归你们的大脑了！
Bertolt: Let's all calm down, my friends! It's time to be reasonable!

贝托尔特：好好想想，芝诺已经向你们开出了极其丰厚的条件。
Bertolt: Think carefully. Zeno has been very generous regarding the offers before you.

他正打算洋洋洒洒地演讲下去，却不由得打了个寒噤。
He readies himself, as if about to launch into a grand prepared speech, but his hand trembles.

一道凛冽的风刮过了这位骄傲的芝诺先生。
A chill wind sweeps over him.

维拉：很遗憾，你还是得出了这样一个可笑的结论。
Vila: Generous? Now that's ridiculous!

维拉：我们不会放弃任何一位同胞，也不打算成为芝诺的应声虫。
Vila: We won't let you take away our family and friends, nor are we about to let you turn our town into a puppet state!

镇民Ⅱ：咱们绝不离开这儿！
Resident II: We will stay here! No matter what!

叶甫根尼：同志们，我理解你们的心情。
Evgeni: Comrades, I understand how you feel right now.

叶甫根尼：但我们不得不面对这一切，面对“撤离来亚什基”的现实。
Evgeni: But we must face the cruel reality of our situation.

维拉：……所以你不得不大义凛然地牺牲一部分人，又或是牺牲掉整个来亚什基。
Vila: And you're willing to send away our own people or give up on all we've built here because of this so-called "reality."

叶甫根尼：至少我们的处境得到了改善。
Evgeni: It is the only way forward.

叶甫根尼：如果继续固执地留在这里，所有人都会毫无意义地牺牲。
Evgeni: If we continue to stay here without any help, it will be the end of us either way.

维拉：难道我们不能依靠自己吗——？
Vila: Do we have to turn to Zeno for this help?

颓丧的神情笼罩了对方的脸。
Evgeni fails to react at first, but a defeated expression comes over him.

叶甫根尼：事实上，来亚什基的经济依托于卢恩矿石，依托于同芝诺的合作。
Evgeni: The truth is, just as Rayashki's economy has been dependent on runium, we remain dependent on Zeno.

叶甫根尼：如果没有芝诺……按照现在的消耗速度估算，来亚什基的资源将在一年内消耗殆尽。
Evgeni: Without them, at the present rate of consumption, we will be out of supplies and materials within a year.

维拉：……
Vila: ...

巨大的遗憾与沉默横亘在了所有人的面前。
A silent tidal shift sweeps over those assembled.

拉远

一切悄悄地落在自诩见多识广的学者眼里。
The researcher observes the change with harsh recognition.

北方哨歌：如此苛刻的条件么……
Windsong: This situation looks bad.

北方哨歌：芝诺控制这儿的决心实在令人讶异。
Windsong: Zeno is determined to gain control over this place.

她鬼使神差地摸到了那封尚未盖章的信笺，像是触电一般，迅速松了手。
She touches the unsealed letter. Her fingers jump away, as if it had been electrified.

北方哨歌：……
Windsong: ...

北方哨歌：如果我真的完成了芝诺指派的任务，这是不是意味着……
Windsong: But if I complete the task as Zeno requested, does it mean ...

贝托尔特关于小镇“化外之民”的论调言犹在耳。
Bertolt's words echo in her ears.

北方哨歌：……我也成了他人理想的刽子手。
Windsong: I will shatter their dream?

北方哨歌：可我同样是为了自己的理想……
Windsong: And what about my dream?

自我的辩白如鲠在喉。
The words stick in her throat.

北方哨歌：那些无端排挤理线学的人，他们也是如此安慰自己的么？
Windsong: Did the people who refused to acknowledge the study of ley lines act out of the same self-interest?

北方哨歌：嗯，我见过这一幕……
Windsong: I've seen this happen so many times before.

北方哨歌：只要沾上了一点和世俗格格不入的东西，就得应付类似的倒霉选择……陈词滥调的理想悲剧，聪明人的见好就收……
Windsong: A simple dream is made to face a cruel reality. Where the clever ones give up and leave, and the stubborn fools remain, waiting to be crushed.

北方哨歌：“是啊，这是我们自找的……”
Windsong: "We asked for our misery."

拉近

她拧过头去，据理力争的呼喊丝毫不曾退潮。
She turns, her mixed feelings refusing to settle.

冷酷的芝诺阵线阻拦了在场所有的异议，人群被推搡着后退。
The wall of soldiers has suppressed most of the dissent in the square.

但仍有人为之前赴后继。

拉近
But still, some bravely charge forward.

维拉：等等——！
Vila: Wait!

维拉：我还有话要说……
Vila: I'm not finished.

贝托尔特甩了甩手，毫不留情地走下台去。
Bertolt dismisses her with his hand as he leaves the stage.

贝托尔特：我已言尽于此，维拉女士。
Bertolt: But I am, Ms. Vila.

拉远

孤独的学者怔在一旁，那些奋力与坚决的呐喊声前赴后继地挤入一颗滞涩的脑袋。
The researcher remains stunned, but this potent chemistry of hope and resolve begins to catalyze something in her.

北方哨歌：……

北方哨歌：…………
Windsong: ...

北方哨歌：无意冒犯，芝诺老爷。仅仅靠我一个人，是没法完成你们的任务的。
Windsong: Sir! With all due respect. I can't complete this task alone.

北方哨歌：既然如此，请原谅草根学者的一颗挣扎与煎熬的心吧。
Windsong: As an ordinary researcher, I can relate to them. Please forgive me for interrupting.

她抬起头来，凝望着人群的方向。
She lifts her head proudly, looking out in the direction of the crowd.

北方哨歌：这些天，我听闻了许多关于来亚什基的故事。
Windsong: I have heard so much about Rayashki these days.

北方哨歌：一个艰难的开始，一群可爱的人们，以及无数个汗滴与鲜血熔铸的故事……
Windsong: They started from nothing, but bit by bit, they accomplished the impossible.

北方哨歌：他们至少应该获得一次为自己发声的权利。
Windsong: Their voice should be heard.

北方哨歌：Природа это числа и черты.
Windsong: Природа это числа и черты.

咒术1

脚下的土壤与雪块仿佛被赋予了新的生命。
The soil and snow under her feet becomes imbued with new life, rising up around her.

它们钳住军靴，堵塞枪口，像是孩子顽皮的恶作剧。
They clamp onto military boots and surge up and into gun barrels, plugging them up in a comical fashion.

拉近

芝诺卫兵：……？！
Zeno Soldier: ...?!

维拉：——！
Vila: ...!

娇小的身体显然不会放过如此良机。
The teacher seizes on this opportunity.

她翻过高大的人墙，向前追去。
She climbs over the wall of confused soldiers and charges forward.

芝诺卫兵：贝、贝托尔特先生……
Zeno Soldier: Miste- ... Mister Bertolt.

芝诺卫兵：不好了，我们快要拦不住他们了！
Zeno Soldier: We can't hold them any longer!

冲突短暂地中止了。
Their conflict ceases.

鳞片包裹的手掌用力扯住了贝托尔特的手臂，锋利的指甲撕破了他的袖口。
Scaly palms forcefully grab Bertolt's arm, sharp nails tearing at his sleeve.

维拉：现在，你愿意听我说了吗？
Vila: Now, will you listen to me?

一本干净如新的登记簿被塞回了贝托尔特的手里。
A clean, new ledger is stuffed into Bertolt's hands.

维拉：我们不需要芝诺的怜悯，也不接受芝诺的管制。
Vila: We don't need your help. Your soldiers and your tyranny are no longer welcome here.

贝托尔特：……
Bertolt: ...

拉远

维拉转过身去，面向更多的人们。
Vila turns around to face her people.

维拉：同志们，我们能够依靠自己的智慧与双手，解决我们的问题，你们能坚信这一切吗？
Vila: Comrades, what do you say? Shall we solve the problem with the strength of our own hands and hearts?

叶甫根尼：哼……
Evgeni: ...

克努特：当然，之前的每一次，咱们不都是这么过来的吗～
Knut: What else can we do? This is what we've always done when there was a problem!

镇民Ⅰ：只要我们所有人一同努力，就一定能想到好办法！
Resident I: There will be more solutions than problems if we work together!

镇民Ⅱ：说得没错！就算死，咱们也得死在一块儿！
Resident II: If I must die, I will die here with all of you!

克努特：臭小子，别胡说，现在还远没到要叫苦放弃的时候哩！
Knut: Just stop talking nonsense, you idiot! Nobody is going to die!

维拉：来亚什基是属于我们所有人的，它当然该由我们所有人来共同坚守！
Vila: Rayashki belongs to all of us. We will stand with it till its last moment!

那团温润的水竟在人群中烧得如此炽热。
The sudden surge of conviction and unity cows the guards as they move backwards.

反而更让人羞愧得面红耳赤。
Many blush with shame.

有人悄悄地退了出去。

心里
Some of them quietly withdraw.

北方哨歌：嗯……让人无地自容啊……
Windsong: Huh, they might say they're just ordinary people, but they are so brave and noble.

FR-11 最后一位乡下人 / The Ley Hunter

萧索的背影漫无目的地游荡在来亚什基的广场。
A lonely researcher aimlessly paces through Rayashki's square.

镇上的冷风显然不能抚平她的褶皱。
The town's cold wind clearly cannot smooth the wrinkles of her brow.

进独白

北方哨歌：理线学的新大厦，一定要建立在他人的废墟之上么？
Windsong: Could I really have traded the future of these people away for my ley line studies?

北方哨歌：唉，芝诺……
Windsong: *sighs* Zeno ...

北方哨歌：它迫使我来到这儿，用一根胡萝卜吊足了我的胃口，它毁了我的一切！
Windsong: I was a mule chasing after a carrot on a stick. They lured me here all so I could help ruin everything!

消人
出独白

那激荡的心声几乎要冲出胸膛。
Her voice bursts up from her chest.

跑

维拉：呵呵，你的精神看起来还不错。
Vila: Heh! You seem to be in a good mood.

北方哨歌：……？
Windsong: ...?

维拉：芝诺的人栽了跟头，他们被迫收拾好自己的计划书，灰溜溜地下台了……我们终于回击了他们一次。
Vila: We taught Zeno a lesson. They were forced to leave with their devil's bargains and tails tucked behind them. We fought back, finally.

维拉：一个很不错的小把戏，不是么？……谢谢你，北方哨歌同志。
Vila: A nice little trick, that was. Thank you, Comrade Windsong.

她朝着北方哨歌眨了眨眼，露出一个感激的笑容。
She smiles at Windsong, giving her a wink.

维拉：当然，我们深知这一壮举出自某位不愿透露姓名的正义人士之手。
Vila: We all know who the mysterious hero was that gave us a helping hand.

北方哨歌：我……什么也没做。
Windsong: I, I didn't do anything.

维拉：作为小镇的朋友并不是什么应该羞愧的事，反抗芝诺的强权更不是。
Vila: It's no shame to have helped your friends, not to mention to stand up to Zeno.

维拉：北方哨歌同志，你应该更自信些。
Vila: Have more confidence in yourself, Comrade Windsong.

北方哨歌：类似的反抗会有所结果吗……？
Windsong: But will you really gain anything from this fight?

维拉：也许会，也许不会。但我们总得做些什么，不是么？
Vila: Not sure, but we have to do something, right?

维拉：这正是我来这儿的目的。
Vila: That's why I'm here.

北方哨歌：为了……我？
Windsong: To talk to me?

北方哨歌：维拉女士，尽管我不清楚原因，但你似乎对我产生了一些过高的期待。
Windsong: I don't know why, but Ms. Vila, you must have thought too much of me.

北方哨歌：事实上，我只是一个无籍籍名的草根学者，也不具备显赫到足以影响芝诺决议的学术背景——
Windsong: In fact, I'm only a simple researcher. I'm not powerful enough to change Zeno's decision.

维拉：理解有误的是你，北方哨歌同志。
Vila: You are the one thinking too much, Comrade Windsong.

维拉：你的理线学并没有你想象的那般不受欢迎，它对孩子们产生了许多积极的影响……
Vila: Your ley line lessons were much more popular than you think. They have had a positive effect on the children.

维拉：他们开始关心更辽阔的世界，一个更立体、更细微的世界。多亏了理线学，现在孩子们总有问不完的问题……
Vila: Now, they are looking at the bigger picture and observing the world in a more detailed way. You've unleashed their curiosity.

维拉：“极光是远星们吐出的泡泡吗？它们的线条也像是一张漂亮的理线图，它们也是理线学家吗……？”
Vila: "Is the aurora the bubbles spit out by the stars? They form such a beautiful map. Do they study ley lines, too?"

维拉故作苦恼地摇了摇头，童稚的疑惑在此前的无数时刻缠住了她的眉间与臂膀。
Vila feigns distress, shaking her head with a pretended childlike confusion.

北方哨歌：但理线学，归根结底只是个仍然停留在理论上的学派。
Windsong: But it remains the case that the study of ley lines has never been verified.

北方哨歌：这个学派太小，野心却太大。迄今几十年来，它都只是一小撮人的自娱自乐，并且越来越少，直到现在……
Windsong: For all its ambitions. Only a limited number of people studied it in the past decades, and that number is decreasing even now.

对方若有所思地点了点头。
Vila nods thoughtfully.

北方哨歌：——！
Windsong: ...!

维拉：正如你瞧见的这样，这并不是某种难缠的皮肤病，而是我的过往。
Vila: What you are looking at is not some skin problem, but my past.

维拉：……身为鲁萨尔卡的过往。
Vila: My past as a Rusalka.

北方哨歌：鲁萨尔卡……传说中的人鱼——？！
Windsong: Rusalka? You mean the mermaid from folklore?!

维拉：呵呵，那是我的族群，一个来自北方的避世族群。
Vila: My people used to live in a far-secluded place in the north, away from the humans.

维拉：几百年来，我们与人类的交集只有敌视、掠夺，以及杀戮……
Vila: For hundreds of years, there was only hostility, plunder, and slaughter between us and them.

维拉：在最近的短短几十年，鲁萨尔卡才逐渐与人类有了更多的交集，也诞生了我……我在人类社会举步维艰了数十年，也习惯了人类的生活。
Vila: We only started to learn more about each other in the last few decades, and then I was born. It's been a hard life growing up within human society, but I've become used to it.

维拉：可现实并没有我想的那般顺利。
Vila: Still, some things never got easier.

维拉：对于更普遍的人类社会而言，他们并不欢迎像我这样的畸形生物。相比于接纳，鄙夷与取乐显然更符合他们的胃口。
Vila: Most humans still thought I was a freak. They "welcomed" me with mocking, sarcasm, and contempt for my people, my heritage.

维拉：而鲁萨尔卡同样无法容忍一条混迹在人类社会中的混血人鱼，他们始终不认同我的选择，不接受我在人类社会、在莫斯科、在圣彼得堡的躲躲藏藏……
Vila: As for the Rusalki, they too found a half-blooded mermaid unacceptable. They didn't approve of my living among the humans, forcing me to live as a fugitive in Moscow and St. Petersburg.

一个令他们作呕的名词，一片被人类夺取的家园，一个肮脏的内陆港口。
"Half-blooded." It was a nauseating term, one separating the Rusalki from the "scaleless" humans who had stolen their homeland.

是的，鲁萨尔卡的仇恨如此古老而长久。
An ancient myth that was the source of the enduring hatred between Rusalki and humans.

维拉：他们千方百计地抓捕我，试图洗礼、净化，抹去我这颗糟糕的污点。
Vila: They tried to catch me by every means possible, so they could wash away the "stain" they saw in me.

北方哨歌：听起来……是段相当煎熬的日子。
Windsong: That sounds very difficult.

维拉：当然，人类对鲁萨尔卡的污名化已经持续了几个世纪，鲁萨尔卡对人类船只的掠夺与捕食同样是刻在血脉中的本能。
Vila: Humans have stigmatized and hunted the Rusalki for centuries, while Rusalki still have the instinct to attack and plunder human ships even now.

维拉：如此深远且长久的仇恨又怎么能在一夕之间消弭呢？
Vila: How are they supposed to make peace in such little time?

维拉：数年前，我也认为这几乎是不可能的事……直到我来到了这儿。
Vila: That was what I thought years ago. Then, I came to this town.

她环顾这片洁白的土地，茫茫的大雪盖住了周遭的一切差异与缺陷。
She surveys the white land; the unifying cover of snow removes all distinctions, differences, and flaws.

维拉：“一个人类与鲁萨尔卡共同生活的美好世界”，我终于确信了这一件事——
Vila: "A wonderful world where humans and Rusalki could live in peace." I was finally convinced.

维拉：在来亚什基的土壤上，每一个人都能凭借自身所学发光发热。不论是人类、鲁萨尔卡，还是你的理线学。
Vila: In Rayashki, everyone can make contributions with their skills, whether you are a human, a Rusalka, or a ley line researcher.

北方哨歌：……
Windsong: ...

维拉：这并非强迫，你也不必为此感到负担。无论如何，你都是来亚什基的朋友。
Vila: I don't mean to give you more stress or push you. You will always be our friend, whatever your choice is.

维拉：它也绝不是一场短暂而遥不可及的梦。
Vila: But this is not an unreachable dream. It's real.

某种熟悉的话语又一次涌了上来。
A familiar phrase wells up inside her again.

一如某些早已沉寂的过往。

德涅斯特河沿岸地区，理线学社
Conjured from a long-silenced past.

拉近

北方哨歌：哈哈～
Windsong: Haha!

一个远比现在瘦削、顽固的少女忍不住欢呼起来。
The girl, then much thinner and more stubborn than now, couldn't help but cheer.

其余的理线师们似乎并没有受她干扰，他们漫不经心地整理着散乱的文件。
The other ley hunters fail to take notice, as they comb through their scattered papers.

北方哨歌：我成功地说服了《环境研究》的编辑，他终于同意刊登我们的报告了！
Windsong: The editor of the Environmental Research agreed to publish our report, finally!

北方哨歌：不过字数只能在五千字以内。
Windsong: But he only gave us 5000 words.

北方哨歌：版面也被严格地限制在最后几页……
Windsong: On the last few pages.

北方哨歌：但毫无疑问，这是一个美好的开始，重振理线学的第一步！
Windsong: Undoubtedly, it's still a good start, our first step to reviving the study of ley lines!

北方哨歌兴冲冲地分享着，她手忙脚乱地趴在桌子上，精心挑选着最经典的那一篇论文。
Windsong beams with excitement, clumsily sprawling over the table to select from their papers with care.

那些枯燥的理论映在女孩的瞳孔里，显得明亮、充满活力——
Dull, dry theories shine anew, bright and vivid in her eyes.

像是黑夜中闪烁的点点繁星。
A table of twinkling stars.

遗憾的是，再明亮的星也无法照亮整片黑夜。
Yet, these stars must shine against an all-consuming field of darkness.

理线师Ⅰ：我打算放弃了……去研究些别的，像是城市规划、景观设计之类的……
Ley Hunter I: That's it. I give up! Maybe I'll study something else, like urban planning, or landscape design.

理线师Ⅰ：至少，它们不会让我饿肚子……
Ley Hunter I: At least I can make a living that way.

北方哨歌仍埋头在层层叠叠的典籍与稿纸堆里，似乎并没有注意到对方在说什么。
Windsong remains buried in her heap of books and manuscripts, oblivious to the loss.

理线师Ⅱ：理线学已经被时代抛弃了，大家都说，它超出了科学验证的范畴……
Ley Hunter II: The study of ley lines is outdated. Everyone agrees now that it can't be verified by science.

理线师Ⅱ：“这是个没有出路的学派，是……毫无根据的神秘运动。”
Ley Hunter II: "This whole study was a dead end. Ley lines are only a baseless theory of arcanum."

桌子上的故纸堆大多是一些失去吸引力的、毫无意义的文字与线条。
The old papers on the table filled with nothing more than nonsense and wasted ink.

至少对大众而言已是如此。
At least that's how the world received it.

理线师Ⅲ：我试图参与其他神秘学家们的讨论，但几乎没有人听说过理线学，他们更关注拉普拉斯的前沿报告……
Ley Hunter III: I tried talking about our study of ley lines with other arcanists, but almost no one has ever heard of it. They are more interested in Laplace's breakthroughs.

理线师Ⅲ：或是更有趣的学界逸闻，比如那篇署名为“洛伦兹蝴蝶”的文章提出的“混沌能量”采样。
Ley Hunter III: Or anecdotes in their own fields, like the Chaotic Energy sampling mentioned in the paper written by the Butterfly of Lorentz.

星星们几乎全然黯淡了下去。
The stars have dimmed.

特写

北方哨歌：理线学……只是场短暂的梦吗？
Windsong: So, maybe it is an unreachable dream?

破
回到现实场景

片刻的恍惚令她迅速地清醒了过来。
A long moment of wistful distraction falls back into reality.

犹豫了许久，她终于缓缓开口。
After much hesitation, she begins to speak again.

北方哨歌：我很希望能帮上忙，但……
Windsong: I do wish I could help, but ...

北方哨歌：为了验证理线学当下的结论，需要耗费大量的人力与物力，也极有可能面临巨大的危险与牺牲……
Windsong: It would take a lot of resources to verify the theory behind ley lines. There may be even danger and sacrifice.

北方哨歌：哪怕是……芝诺，在我的研究产出实质性成果前，他们也不愿意为之倾注过多的注意力。
Windsong: Even Zeno has paid little attention to my research. They only see it as a means to an end.

北方哨歌：专家们著作等身，研究成果不可计数，他们能够互相引证，而我……甚至失去了我的师承。
Windsong: Researchers in other fields can stand on the shoulders of giants, while I, I don't even have a school to return to.

北方哨歌：从可预想的结果上来看，理线学也许很难对你们产生多少帮助。
Windsong: I doubt that the study of ley lines will help you much.

她低下头，艰难地向后退缩了几步。
She retreats a few steps back.

维拉：……原来如此。
Vila: I see.

维拉：谢谢你的坦诚，北方哨歌同志。
Vila: Well, thank you for your honesty, Comrade Windsong.

维拉遗憾地点了点头，没再说话。
Vila looks away, holding the regret deep in her chest.

北方哨歌：我很抱歉……
Windsong: I'm sorry.

维拉：那么，祝健康。
Vila: I'll see you soon.

北方哨歌：再见，维拉女士。
Windsong: See you, Vila.

她的头颅低了下去，转过身，艰难地迈开了步子。
She bows her head and turns, taking a few more difficult steps away.

也许是为那遥不可及的复兴之梦，也许是为这眼前所发生的糟糕一切。
Perhaps it was her unattainable dream of revival that slowed her, or the weight of all that had gone wrong.

维拉：请等等，北方哨歌同志——！
Vila: Wait, Comrade Windsong!

轻盈的步伐又一次跃向了她。
A burst of light steps leaps toward her once more.

北方哨歌：……？
Windsong: ...?

维拉：别忘了下一堂课的内容，孩子们都在等着你呢～
Vila: Don't forget your next lesson. The children are still waiting.

北方哨歌：可小镇……
Windsong: But the town is ...

维拉：生活仍在继续，我的朋友。
Vila: Life must continue, comrade.

维拉：至少现在，我们还是得大步地朝前走去，对吧？
Vila: We can't let our worries stop us.

北方哨歌：……好的。
Windsong: Okay.

FR-12 晚班列车 / The Night Train

学校课堂

粉笔在黑板上落下了最后一笔，讲台上的人也长舒了一口气。
As the chalk marks its final stroke, the lecturer exhales a long breath.

北方哨歌：孩子们，下课了。
Windsong: Class is over.

北方哨歌：谢天谢地，我还没把《理线学生物考》课上的内容忘个干净……
Windsong: Thank goodness, I still remembered the basic premises of "Ley Lines and Biology."

北方哨歌：如果你们有任何疑问的话，欢迎向我提问。
Windsong: Feel free to ask me any questions.

北方哨歌：高兴点吧，小家伙们～这门课程可不需要考试。
Windsong: Cheer up, little ones. There won't be any exams for this subject.

她开了个不大不小的玩笑，试图缓解课堂的尴尬。
She offers a hesitant joke to ease the awkwardness of the class.

往常的玩闹声并未响起，四周静悄悄的。
But their usual playful responses never emerge.

北方哨歌：嗯……？
Windsong: Mm?

她抬起头来，对上了许多双清澈的眼睛。
She turns to face a class that must be bored, asleep, maybe distracted. She's met instead by clear and focused eyes.

阿夫西维：北方哨歌，你还打算一个人偷偷去摘铁皮土豆吗？
Avgust: Ms. Windsong, are you going to dig up those potatoes alone again?

尼娜：我们能为您做些什么吗？
Nina: Is there anything we can do to help you?

尼娜：维拉老师说，我们一定能打败外面的魔精。
Nina: Ms. Vila said we will work together to beat the critters out there.

尼娜：如果我们能帮您画好地脉能量图，就一定能发现它们的弱点——！
Nina: That we will find their weakness as long as we finish the map with you!

彼得森：就像您教我们的那样！
Pyotr: Just like how you taught us to!

彼得森：“奇肯恩一点儿也不可怕，它们是草食性魔精，不会伤害人类……”
Pyotr: "Qiqirn are not dangerous at all. They are plant-eating critters and pose little threat to humans."

阿夫西维：我有绳子、花朵、白色的手套，可以挖出很多的土豆。
Avgust: I have ropes, flowers, and white gloves. We will dig up a lot of potatoes together.

阿夫西维：彼得森的力气很大，他能搬开路上的石头……尼娜会给大家准备暖和的水壶……还有、还有……
Avgust: Pyotr is strong. He can move any rocks that are in our way. Nina can prepare a kettle of warm water for everyone. And ...

孩子们的声音此起彼伏，哽咽与某些湿润的液体混在其中。
The children's voices rise and fall. What began as icy determination soon melts into a cascade of sobbing tears.

北方哨歌：……抱歉，小家伙们。
Windsong: I'm sorry, little ones.

北方哨歌：我也很希望能确定我当前所有的研究理论，但……
Windsong: I wish I could verify all the theories we've been working on, but ...

彼得森：……
Pyotr: ...

她将来亚什基的地脉能量图贴在黑板上，圈出了某块巨大的黑色漏洞。
She affixes Rayashki's ley energy map to the blackboard, circling an empty void.

北方哨歌：正如你们所见，这张地脉能量图并不完整。它仍缺少了关键的一角。
Windsong: As you can see, a critical part is missing.

北方哨歌：按照我一个人的精力，再快也得好几个月才能初步完成。
Windsong: It might take months to finish it.

北方哨歌：更何况，那儿还可能有其他更危险的魔精种群。
Windsong: Besides, there may be even more dangerous critters in that area.

阿夫西维：小镇会成为女巫的新城堡吗？空荡荡的，什么也没有。
Avgust: Then the town will become the witch's new castle? Or perhaps an empty castle.

孩子众：……
Kids: ...

收起浮窗

讲台下的目光们黯淡了下去。
Her attempt to turn the mood again falls flat.

新一堂课的铃声终于响了起来，中止了这个并不美好的话题。
A merciful bell rings out the dreary topic like a dirge.

下一堂课的老师及时地赶来了这儿。
Thankfully, the next teacher arrives swiftly to relieve her.

维拉：孩子们，请安静下来。
Vila: Quiet, children.

她的目光坚定，缓缓扫过台下无数的孩子们。
She holds her gaze firm, sweeping over the assembled children.

维拉：擦擦眼泪，高兴点儿～我们的来亚什基可不会轻易地被打倒——！
Vila: Wipe your tears and cheer up! Our Rayashki will stand strong!

彼得森：真的吗？！
Pyotr: Really?!

北方哨歌：……可你们要怎么坚持下去？
Windsong: But what are you going to do?

北方哨歌有些惊讶地望着对方，随即，她想到了一个最可能发生的结局，斟酌着开口。
Windsong is taken aback at first. Then, contemplating the possibilities, she delicately weighs her words.

北方哨歌：维拉……你们该不会向芝诺……贝托尔特并不简单，你得小心些……
Windsong: Vila, I hope you aren't seriously considering Zeno's ...

维拉：当然不，我们绝不向他们低头！
Vila: Of course not. They might try, but we will never give in!

维拉：但无论如何，让小镇维系下去，让所有人都能有个安全的去处。这才是最重要的……
Vila: No matter what, for now, we must find a way to protect our town. We will need a shelter from these critters.

维拉：这是来亚什基所有人的决定。
Vila: We've all decided to stay.

窗帘升了起来，窗外的阳光洒了进来。
The curtains part, and sunlight pours in from outside.

维拉：看看外面吧，孩子们～
Vila: Look outside, children.

维拉：这儿的每一个人，都在为小镇的存续做着力所能及的事。
Vila: Each and every one of us is doing what we can to hold our town together.

阿夫西维：克努特的工厂们在吐泡泡——！
Avgust: Knut's factory is spitting out puffy bubbles.

维拉：呵呵……
Vila: Heh heh.

维拉：工人先生们计划改造那些早已废弃的矿石加工厂。
Vila: The workers are going to transform the abandoned factories into something useful.

维拉：他们正在清理加工厂的石料与碎屑，这可不是件轻松的工作。
Vila: They are cleaning the ore and debris there. Not an easy job.

维拉：之后，我们会努力开展新的生产线，同周边的其他城市建立合作关系，鳜鱼养殖、罐头生产、土豆种植，这些不都是我们擅长的吗？
Vila: After that, we will start new production lines and cooperate with the surrounding cities. We will grow potatoes, breed fish, and make canned food. We will find our strengths together!

阿夫西维：我们要为工厂化妆吗？扎辫子，梳好头发，戴上漂亮的花环——！
Avgust: Are we putting makeup on the factories? We can paint their faces and put beautiful garlands on them!

尼娜：咦……帕特里基先生在做什么呢？
Nina: Hmm? So what is Mr. Patrik doing?

阿夫西维：大家都在排队，今天是铁帽子节吗？
Avgust: Everyone's waiting in line. Is it the tin-hat festival again?

维拉：很遗憾，小阿夫西维……我想我们很长一段时间都见不到布林饼同志了。
Vila: I'm sorry, Avgust. I think we will have to live without our tin hats and Comrade Blinchik for a long time.

维拉：他们正在举行签名仪式。
Vila: They are signing on to a reform of our rationing.

维拉：为了能把工厂涂成新的模样，我们需要缩减公共食堂的后续开支……
Vila: To transform our factories, we need to cut down the budget for the canteen.

阿夫西维：噢，谢谢你，布林同志——
Avgust: Oh, thank you for your sacrifice, Comrade Blinchik.

阿夫西维：你应该得到奖状，还有阿廖卡！
Avgust: You deserve a medal and some chocolate!

帕索诺：你们看，那边的推土机正在拆掉我们的房子！
Pasono: Look, the bulldozers are tearing down those houses!

维拉：是的，所有人都同意住得更紧密一点儿——
Vila: Yes. We all agreed to exchange some of our living space.

维拉：这样我们就能腾出更多的好土地，种下更多的食物～
Vila: For more land to grow food.

孩子们好奇而骄傲地趴在窗前，像是在告别，又像是在致意。
The children crowd the window, silent but beaming with pride, as if paying tribute.

北方哨歌的目光无声地跟随着维拉的讲述行进着，直到终点。
Windsong follows Vila's narrative to its conclusion.

学校课堂
北方哨歌：北方思考动作

北方哨歌：如此沉重的牺牲，值得么？
Windsong: The price is much higher than it first seemed. Is it worth it?

维拉：当然。
Vila: Of course.

维拉：无论是芝诺、慈善机构，还是其他任何一个地方，都不是来亚什基人的归宿。
Vila: You cannot find what we have here in Zeno's barracks, or in a relief camp. You can't find it anywhere in the world.

维拉：那些尚在襁褓的婴儿，那些垂垂老矣的同志们，他们也是来亚什基的过去和未来，我们又怎么能抛弃他们呢？
Vila: Think about the old comrades and the babies. They are the past and the future of Rayashki. How could we leave them behind or subject them to Zeno's whims?

窗外的机械声响远远地传来，像是来自土地的呼唤。
Mechanical sounds from outside carry across the snow from afar, as if the land itself is calling.

维拉：在来亚什基，没有人应该被放弃。
Vila: No one shall ever be abandoned in Rayashki.

北方哨歌：这是块令人羡慕的土地……
Windsong: I think people out there would be envious if they saw what you are doing here.

她没有再追问下去，窗外的一切映在她的眼里。
She doesn't press further.

维拉：我们并没有你所想的那么伟大……这是我们应该做的事。
Vila: We really aren't doing anything so special. We're only doing our job, our duty to one another.

北方哨歌的目光落了下来，那些细微的棘刺与鱼鳍又一次凝固在她的眼前。
Her scales and spines have risen, though whether it's a sign of pride or fear, she can't say.

北方哨歌：外面多的是类似的事，就像……夹在鲁萨尔卡与人类之间的你。
Windsong: There are lots of conflicts out there, conflicts like the one between humans and Rusalki.

北方哨歌：他们贬低、排挤着理线学，逼迫它解散……仅仅因为这个东西可能会抢走他们的研究经费、他们的名头。
Windsong: Like the ones that mocked the study of ley lines and dissolved our school. They did so simply because it might take from their funds or steal their glory.

北方哨歌：大家继续经营着各自的护城河，直到永远。
Windsong: Everyone forever building walls, just to keep separated from each other—Hoarding whatever they could get their hands on.

北方哨歌：然后一切的责任都可归咎为“当下的时代”。
Windsong: Then they blame the aftermath—the harm they do to others on "cruel realities."

北方哨歌：呵，当下的时代……所有人的头号大敌，一个完美的借口。
Windsong: Heh, "cruel reality." It seems to be everyone's mortal enemy, the cause of all suffering, war, greed—the perfect excuse to never care.

她愤愤不平地低诉着，坚实的力量从肩膀上传来。
Her voice trails into a mutter.

维拉：可来亚什基并不一样。
Vila: But things are different in Rayashki.

维拉：它毫无理由地接纳了我，从一周，到几个月，许多年……直到现在。
Vila: They took me in unconditionally when I came here. And they stayed friendly for a week, a month, a year, and even now.

维拉：它理所当然地成了我的理想——
Vila: So naturally, it became my dream, too.

维拉：一个属于所有人，也依赖所有人的美好构想，一个共同劳作、共同生活的健全社会。
Vila: Everyone here shares a beautiful dream, a dream that we can work and enjoy life together.

维拉：我们一同建设，也一同分享着其中的成果，不再需要与任何人勾心斗角，不需要忧心自己的未来，所有人都能够在他所希望的任何一个领域成就事业。
Vila: That someday there will be no more conflicts between people or worries about tomorrow. That everyone will be able to work to achieve their passions whatever field they wish to pursue. A utopia.

维拉：不仅是当下，也是未来。
Vila: It's not just a way of life for now, but the future we're always trying to reach.

北方哨歌：……
Windsong: ...

维拉：我将你的理线学与它所拥有的可能性传达给了来亚什基的许多人。
Vila: I've spread the study of ley lines in Rayashki, along with its potential.

一张朴素的邀请函落入北方哨歌的眼里，密密麻麻的签名潦草而坦率地挤满了所有的空白处。
A simple invitation catches Windsong's eye, with dense, messy signatures filling every possible space.

维拉：他们对这样一个能够发掘土壤中秘密的学派相当感兴趣。
Vila: They showed great interest. The study tells us about the secrets that could lie beneath the earth, after all.

维拉：“说不定，里面就藏着来亚什基的希望呢……？”
Vila: "Perhaps it will bring hope to Rayashki."

北方哨歌：可我并不是来亚什基人……
Windsong: But, I'm not one of you.

维拉：你帮助了这儿的孩子们，教授他们新知识，也同我们一起探索着来亚什基的可能性，不是么？
Vila: You taught the children something new, and you helped us explore our town's potential, didn't you?

维拉：这儿的所有人都很乐意帮助你。克努特同志骄傲地告诉所有人，他在工厂也参与了理线学的研究。
Vila: Everyone here is more than happy to help you. You know, Comrade Knut has been boasting about the assistance he was able to provide for your studies.

维拉：许多人都在羡慕他……
Vila: And many others are envious. They want to help you, too.

维拉：更重要的是，在这儿，你的理论已经有了一批好奇的学生。
Vila: More importantly, you already have a group of curious students here willing to study your theory.

收起浮窗

北方哨歌：……
Windsong: ...

维拉：让我再问一次吧，北方哨歌同志。
Vila: Now, allow me to ask you again, Comrade Windsong.

维拉：——你愿意为来亚什基的全体镇民举办一场关于理线学的讲座吗？
Vila: Would you hold a lecture on ley lines for all the citizens of Rayashki?

北方哨歌：……哪怕理线学在外没得到任何的好名声，哪怕我还没有一丁点儿的实质性成果？
Windsong: Even though my research doesn't have any endorsements or achievements?

维拉：正因如此，我们拥有了一同建设的动力。
Vila: Of course. Perhaps we can be the first to endorse it, after your lecture.

北方哨歌：这是赤裸裸的引诱，维拉。
Windsong: You're being far too obvious in your recruitment tactics.

维拉亲切地笑了笑，不顾对方微弱的抗议，继续说了下去。
Vila smiles, ignoring her feigned protest.

维拉：这是个并不美好的世界。它有许多糟糕的问题，巨头倾轧、贫困问题、利己主义、排外运动……
Vila: The world is not a beautiful place. Poverty, privilege, egoism, exclusivism, so many problems.

维拉：但未来并不见得始终如此。
Vila: But that doesn't mean it can't get better in the future.

维拉：至少在来亚什基，我们能有一些新的试验。它说不定会成为一个未来的符号，一个新世界的预兆，一张所有种族、所有主义都能和谐共处的蓝图。
Vila: Perhaps, the experiment we're doing in Rayashki now will become the symbol of a better future, a new world where all races and ideas can coexist.

维拉：当然，它也许会失败，留下一片废墟与遗憾。
Vila: Well, of course, it may fail and end up a ruin.

维拉：但至少——我们来过。
Vila: But at least we've tried.

北方哨歌：……
Windsong: ...

她注视着维拉的背影，仿佛看到一艘驶向远岸的巨轮。
She watches Vila standing proudly, as if gazing at a great ship bound for distant shores.

它孤注一掷，永不退缩。
Venturing all, never shrinking back.

维拉：我们热爱这里，也情愿为之牺牲。
Vila: We love our home, and we're ready to devote our lives to it.

北方哨歌：我这算是上了一艘摇摇欲坠的新船？
Windsong: I can't shake the feeling you're inviting me aboard a leaky boat that could sink any moment.

维拉：或许吧，北方哨歌同志。
但在这儿，鲁萨尔卡不是你的敌人，而是朋友。
Vila: Maybe, Comrade Windsong. But should we sink, remember your friend is a Rusalka, and we do well underwater.

对方不置可否地眨了眨眼睛。
Windsong blinks, half-wondering if her new friend has gone mad.

一双手郑重地接过了那封邀请函。
And finding it madder still that she is reaching out to solemnly accept the invitation.

北方哨歌：荣幸之至。
Windsong: What an honor.

FR-13 别了芝诺！ / So Long, Zeno!

小镇广场（童话一面）
The crowd has gathered together again.

人群又一次汇聚在了这里。

北方哨歌：我……
Windsong: I ...

她又一次登上了魂牵梦萦的地方。
It is a familiar place—one she's visited in dreams before.

好奇抵过了鄙夷，期待漫过了指责。
This time, though, her watchers seem more curious than doubtful.

无数热忱的目光落在她的身上。
Their eager eyes follow her every move.

北方哨歌：接下来，我将为在座的各位介绍我的学派，理线学——
Windsong: Today, I am going to introduce the study of ley lines.

北方哨歌：以及对来亚什基当前状况的研究进程。
Windsong: And the progress of my research on Rayashki.

北方哨歌深吸了口气，从笔记本里抽出了几页“古老”的研究笔记。
Windsong takes a deep breath, pulling out a few pages of research notes.

它们在一双双振奋起来的手掌间传递着。
The pages are passed from hand to hand, stirring excitement.

北方哨歌：多亏了在座各位的帮助，我绘制出了一张初具雏形的地脉能量图谱。
Windsong: Thanks to your help, I have finished a draft of the town's ley energy map.

北方哨歌：也确认了来亚什基地区的大部分资源存量情况。
Windsong: And I have confirmed the presence of many precious resources.

克努特：就凭着这些五颜六色的线条……？
Knut: Through these colorful lines?

北方哨歌：不同颜色的线与光点昭示着地脉能量在不同生物及土地矿物中的留存状态。
Windsong: These lines and spots show us the state of local ley energy. Each color represents a different concentration of creatures or minerals.

北方哨歌：简而言之，冻土与冷霜覆盖着这一区域的绝大部分土地，它们的资源量相当富裕。
Windsong: Simply put, this area covered in frozen earth and frost contains many rich resource veins.

北方哨歌：象征着它们的冷灰色痕迹铺满在了能量图的大部分角落，但它们始终没能入侵小镇的内部。
Windsong: These gray marks symbolize them. They are located in most of the corners of the map, all of them outside of town.

镇民Ⅰ：噢！爷爷辈总念叨着这事，最早的时候，小镇一无所有，连半颗种子也种不活……
Resident I: Oh! Maybe that's why Grandpa said we couldn't grow anything here in the beginning.

镇民Ⅰ：后来，咱们从遥远的北方运来了一方方丰沃而柔软的黑土，它们成了小镇的基石。
Resident I: They eventually solved that problem by importing rich black topsoil for our fields.

北方哨歌：而这儿赖以生存的卢恩矿石，则是铅色的。
Windsong: As for the runium you've mined to make a living, look at the dark gray marks.

北方哨歌：根据图谱显示，这儿呈现出的铅色痕迹越发模糊，我们几乎无法观测到它的存在了。
Windsong: According to the map, they are becoming increasingly scattered and faint, so it can be hard to see them.

克努特：……
Knut: ...

北方哨歌：除了本身的自然资源，我们同样能根据地脉能量图确认生物痕迹的存在。
Windsong: Besides resources, we can also find concentrations of different creatures using the map.

北方哨歌：深蓝色的痕迹属于奇肯恩，而湖蓝色则属于出没于港口与海湾的奇肯恩变种，它们以植物为食，小镇内部的各个角落都能发现它们的痕迹。
Windsong: The navy blue marks represent the Qiqirn, while the aqua green ones represent the mutant Qiqirn from the wharf. They feed on plants, and you can find their traces in many corners of the town.

北方哨歌：而红棕色的痕迹则属于基基图克，它们生性凶狠，喜欢一切神秘动物与神秘学气息丰裕的“食物”。
Windsong: The red brown marks are the Kikituks, an aggressive species. They're vicious by nature and prey on just about anything arcane they can find, even other creatures.

收起浮窗

克努特：这些东西快把咱们的脑袋给挤满啦～咱们可记不住这么多东西。北方哨歌同志，你有什么更简单的法子吗？
Knut: I feel as though my head is going to explode from all this new information. Can you explain a little simpler for this old workhorse, Comrade Windsong?

北方哨歌：当然。
Windsong: Of course.

她自信地点了点头，小心翼翼地掏出了一小撮绒毛。
She proudly produces a small handful of fluff.

北方哨歌：它来自一头在矿区活动的基基图克，在叶甫根尼先生的协助下，我完成了取样。
Windsong: This sample comes from a Kikituk in the mine. I took it with Mr. Evgeni's help.

叶甫根尼：……
Evgeni: ...

克努特：可再怎么观察，它看上去不也就是一撮普通的软毛吗？
Knut: Seems like just a normal piece of fluff, no matter how I look at it.

北方哨歌：在旁人看来，这甚至不能做成一把小刷子。
Windsong: Yes, and in most people's eyes, it's nothing more than that.

北方哨歌：但在理线师的眼中，它呈现出了巨大的信息量。
Windsong: But in a ley hunter's eyes, it reveals a great deal of information.

北方哨歌：嗯……深蓝色与红棕色交织在了一起，还掺杂了些许铅色的光点。
Windsong: Ah. The navy blue marks and the red brown ones seem to mix together. And there are also dark gray ones popping out among them.

北方哨歌：看来这位基基图克先生的伙食还不错，说不准是一顿奇肯恩肉汤配卢恩矿石特调开菲尔。
Windsong: So it looks like our Mr. Kikituk ate well. Perhaps he had a Qiqirn soup with runium-flavored kefir.

克努特：哈哈，看来咱们率先在魔精群体中实现了共同理想。
Knut: Hahaha, looks like these critters have realized our dream long before we could.

镇民Ⅱ：可那些黑色的小玩意是……？
Resident II: But what about those black marks?

镇民Ⅱ：如果我没记错，北方哨歌同志，你刚才给咱们展示的能量图也有一大片类似的黑色痕迹……
Resident II: If my memory serves me right, the map you just showed us had those black marks, too.

收起浮窗

北方哨歌：是的，它们与目前已知的任何一种生物或非生物都无法匹配。
Windsong: Yes, but they don't match any creature or resource we know.

北方哨歌：我认为，它属于一种新的资源。
Windsong: I believe it represents a new kind of resource.

普通镇民：噢……可这种新玩意儿在哪儿呢？！
The Other Resident: Oh! Well, where is it then?!

场上的气氛明显地热烈了起来。
The mood has intensified, residents clamoring around to see.

北方哨歌：我想，这一问题的答案，只能在那一块区域才能找到了。
Windsong: We can only find the answer in this area here.

克努特：……是矿区的最深处？
Knut: You mean in the depths of the mine?

北方哨歌点了点头，继续说了下去。
Windsong gives a slow affirmative nod.

北方哨歌：也是地脉能量的源头。地脉能量从那儿蒸腾而出，附着在所有生物与非生物之上。经过食物链的演化与循环，它们又无一例外地朝着那儿回流。
Windsong: The ley energy is emanating from there. Afterwards, it flows throughout the "food chain," passing through all kinds of creatures and materials before eventually returning to its source.

北方哨歌：而我们所尚未勘测到的大片新资源，也极有可能出现在那儿。
Windsong: Then our new resource is probably somewhere there.

克努特：如果咱们能找到它们，就再也不用受那芝诺的鸟气了！
Knut: So we need to find it! Then we won't have to put up with Zeno anymore!

像是抛入了一颗闪烁的火星，人群开始窃窃私语。
The audience sparks up. Rippling murmurs turn into a burst of questions and excitement.

克努特：你……还有别的证据么？
Knut: But, do you have any other proof?

他激动地搓了搓手，像个等待糖果的单纯孩子。
He lays out his hands, as if expecting Windsong to put something there.

北方哨歌：当然。克努特先生，你还记得之前在矿场里挖出的魔精么？
Windsong: Of course. Remember the critter you found in the mine, Mr. Knut?

克努特：你提到过它的名字，叫霍、霍伊……
Knut: Yes, you said it was called, em, a Hoi-Hoitoo.

北方哨歌：霍伊图克，基基图克的亚种。与基基图克相反，它们活跃于地底，喜食一切矿石。
Windsong: Hoituk, a subspecies of Kikituk. They live underground and feed on minerals.

克努特：可那时候，咱们的卢恩矿石已经不剩多少了。
Knut: That was around the time we had begun to run out of runium.

北方哨歌：但它们并没有因此离去，反而愈发活跃了起来。显然，有别的东西吸引了它们，不是么？
Windsong: Is that so? But they were still there, perhaps even more active than usual. That could only mean they were attracted by some other mineral or energy source, right?

北方哨歌：而在我之前的调查中，尽管没有发现它们的踪迹，但我确实找到了与它们关系密切的另一种魔精，奥尔加异种。
Windsong: And even though I didn't find any further Hoituks during my research, I did find the Olga mutants, one of their close relatives.

北方哨歌：而对于这类群居性魔精而言，这至少能佐证霍伊图克的存在！
Windsong: Since they are social creatures, my discovery must prove the presence of some of these Hoituks, even if we cannot find them yet!

四周的欢呼声越来越大，叶甫根尼干咳了两声。
The surrounding cheers swell again, prompting Evgeni to clear his throat.

叶甫根尼：就为了一个缺乏实证的猜想，我们就得浪费无数人力去开凿冻土层叠的地底么？
Evgeni: But in the end, this is all just conjecture. Are we really going to waste all our time and money on your assumptions?

叶甫根尼：你的说法有完整的论证吗？
Evgeni: Or can you prove it's something more than conjecture?

北方哨歌：这只是初步的结论。
Windsong: I would call it a preliminary conclusion.

叶甫根尼：它们是否得到任何一种官方学说的支持或引证？
Evgeni: But could it be endorsed by any authorities or proven theories?

北方哨歌：目前……没有。
Windsong: So far, no.

叶甫根尼：所以，它们只是如同童话故事般的臆想与猜测，对么？
Evgeni: So then, it is little more than a fairy tale. Am I right?

北方哨歌：我承认，这确实是场风险极高的豪赌……
Windsong: I admit it's a gamble.

叶甫根尼的眉头皱得更厉害了，嘴角挂着一丝冷笑。
Evgeni's now-infamous brow furrows once more.

叶甫根尼：开采并不是件轻松的事情。
Evgeni: It's never easy to dig, you know.

叶甫根尼：芝诺撤走了他们的挖掘设备，只给来亚什基留下了一堆过时的老家伙。
Evgeni: And Zeno has already withdrawn all their own equipment. All we have left in Rayashki are some outdated machines.

叶甫根尼：而刚才北方哨歌女士提到的魔精……它们确实能作为证据，但无可否认的是，它们同样代表着危险。
Evgeni: Besides, Ms. Windsong mentioned the critters. Maybe their presence there is some kind of proof, but they are themselves a danger.

叶甫根尼：那儿的魔精显然比小镇周边泛滥得更加厉害。
Evgeni: It is obvious that there will be many more critters there than near the town.

叶甫根尼：难道你们打算为了一个虚无缥缈的理论浪费时间，然后眼睁睁地看着同胞们牺牲在那儿吗？
Evgeni: And you would have us waste time—perhaps even sacrifice our comrades—to pursue what could just be a fairy tale?

北方哨歌：……
Windsong: ...

对方步步向前逼近。

北方哨歌无声地张了张口，眼前的一切变得更熟悉了。
He advances closer, step by step.

闭眼

缓缓黑屏
Windsong's mouth opens silently. The look on his face far too familiar.

理线学轰然倒塌前的那一刻。
The moment before the collapse of ley line academia.

是的，正是这样的眼神。
Yes, that is the look.

质疑、痛惜，压得人几乎喘不过气来。
The suffocating weight of questions and regrets.

考评员Ⅰ：毫无疑问，这是个验证成本极高的理论。
Examiner I: There is no doubt, the cost is simply too high.

考评员Ⅰ：有人乐意去那些荒郊野岭，再挖出几个深坑，来确认里面有没有什么魔精骨头之类的吗？
Examiner I: Who would be foolish enough to dig some holes in the wild just to see if there are critter bones in there?

四周有低低的窃笑声传来。
Harsh sounds of laughter come from everywhere and nowhere all at once.

考评员Ⅰ：答案已经很清晰了，我们并不需要一个掺杂了神秘学的地理学分支，也没有必要浪费不必要的人力。
Examiner I: The answer is very clear. We don't need a new kind of geography mixed with arcanum. Let's save everybody some trouble.

考评员Ⅰ：关于理线学的正式立项申请：不予通过。
Examiner I: Conclusion: the application for Project: Ley Line should be rejected.

考评员Ⅱ：附议。
Examiner II: Agreed.

北方哨歌：我……
Windsong: I ...

考评员Ⅱ：呵，现在谁都想挂个乱七八糟的学科名，然后试图在这儿分一杯羹么？
Examiner II: Heh, even cranks can apply for research funds nowadays.

她踉跄着退了几步——

撞在某个结实的物体上。
She staggers back.

开眼
Bumping into something solid.

某种陌生而熟悉的水润触感从肩膀后头传来。
A strange yet familiarly cool sensation lands on her shoulder.

不知什么时候，维拉站到了她的身后。
Vila stands behind her.

维拉：往前走，北方哨歌同志——往前走。
Vila: Keep moving, Comrade Windsong. Keep moving.

维拉：遇到一丁点儿困难就退缩，这可不是来亚什基人的作为。
Vila: The people of Rayashki don't back down in the face of their problems.

北方哨歌：……
Windsong: ...

维拉：困难也好，问题也罢，我们都能一同解决它，对吧？
Vila: Whatever it is, we can fix it together, right?

北方哨歌：…………
Windsong: ...

维拉：我同意北方哨歌同志的计划。
Vila: I approve of Comrade Windsong's proposal.

镇民众：我们也是——！
Residents: Me too!

激荡的巨轮驶向前来，它压倒一切顽固与质疑——
Her surging ship launches forward, plowing through stubbornness and doubt.

也弥补一切不甘与遗憾。
Never looking back.

北方哨歌：没错！
Windsong: That's right.

北方哨歌：这并不是孤注一掷的勇敢。
Windsong: This is not a gamble or a fairy tale.

她翻开背包的手甚至有些颤抖。
Her hands tremble as she opens her backpack.

北方哨歌：这是一台理线拟态仪。
Windsong: Here's a ley line simulator.

北方哨歌：它能帮助理线师们模拟当下环境里生物的习性，让我们更从容地分析它们。
Windsong: It can simulate the creatures on the ley energy map, so we can do further analysis.

维拉：它也能模拟那些张牙舞爪的魔精们么？
Vila: Is it able to simulate the critters, too?

北方哨歌：是的，对于一位成熟的理线师而言，模拟魔精只是简单的第一课。
Windsong: Certainly. Simulating critters is lesson one in the ley line textbook.

北方哨歌：换而言之，我们同样能够用它来做一些应对魔精的训练。
Windsong: We can use the simulation to carry out targeted training against the critters.

维拉：看来，理线学的探索并不莽撞……
Vila: Looks like the study of ley lines is more organized than I thought.

维拉：恭喜你，北方哨歌同志，你获得了充足的人力。
Vila: Congratulations, Comrade Windsong. You will have the manpower you need.

收起浮窗道具

北方哨歌转过身去，无数热切的拳头高举着。
Windsong turns as more and more fists are raised into the air.

镇民Ⅰ：快打开吧，同志！
Resident I: Turn it on, comrade!

镇民Ⅱ：咱们都迫不及待啦～
Resident II: We can't wait!

北方哨歌点了点头，深吸了一口气。
A deep breath, a glance to confirm that all is ready, then ...

“啪嗒。”
理线
特写
推镜
插图
震屏

一个投影仪投影出基基图克的样子，外观上是线条构成的
*click*

“基基图克”：&*%吼……！
"Kikituk": *roars*

叶甫根尼：——！
Evgeni: ...!

叶甫根尼条件反射般地挡在所有人的前面。
Evgeni instinctively positions himself in front of everyone.

克努特：哈哈，这就像是回到了最开始垦荒的时候！
Knut: Hahahaha, it's like digging the mine all over again!

普通镇民：那可是能吹嘘一辈子的成绩～
The Other Resident: That was the biggest achievement of my life!

克努特：加油干吧，同志们！
Knut: Let's do this, comrades!

克努特：重新开垦矿区可不是件轻松事。
Knut: Digging like this is no easy work!

人们挽起袖子，热烈地拥上前来。
They roll up their sleeves, pressing forward confidently.

克努特：呼……刚才那一记可真有力，哈哈～
Knut: Phew! That was one powerful blow. Hahahahaha!

广场上的人们东倒西歪，显然经过了一场强度颇高的锻炼。
The square is now pocked by groups of disheveled workers, resting after their rigorous exertion.

北方哨歌的后背浸得湿透，拟态仪也不堪重负，吱呀作响。
Windsong's back is soaked, and her simulator creaks with stress.

维拉：现在，我想我们能够得出结论了。
Vila: I think we can draw our conclusions now.

“嘎吱——”
*creak*

老旧的长椅发出剧烈的呻吟，一双靴子踩上了最高处。
The old bench groans beneath her boots as she nimbly propels herself onto its narrow back.

bg图移动

维拉：我们必须承认，这是一次危险而大胆的行动，但它同样是最后的机会。
Vila: Everyone! We have to admit this is going to be a risky operation, but it's also our last chance.

维拉：为了我们的土地不至沉睡，为了我们的同胞不必四分五裂。
Vila: To protect our land and our people!

维拉：我们必须得前往那片矿区。
Vila: We must explore the mine!

维拉：当然，那儿也许有危险，也许有受伤，但同样可能有新的资源，有拯救来亚什基的希望。
Vila: There will be danger; yes, some of us may get hurt, but we may also find this new resource and save our Rayashki.

维拉：为了你，为了我，为了他、她、他们。
Vila: For you, for me, for everyone!

四周静悄悄的，仿佛只能听见遥远彼岸寄来的风。
There is no cheer that rises to meet her. The only thing audible now is the distant sea breeze buffeting the shore.

维拉：魔精们占领了矿区，那我们就协力打败它们！
Vila: We can already expect that critters have occupied the mine. We'll just have to work together to drive them away!

维拉：就算只有老旧的设备，我们也能重新挖掘矿区——！
Vila: We dug this mine with our old machines once, and we'll do it again!

维拉：我们正是如此前行至今。
Vila: This is how we've made it so far.

北方哨歌无声地抬起头来，像是在见证一面飞扬的旗帜。
The crowd rises, pulling in together. Windsong looks up and outward.

克努特：再老古董的钢铁家伙们，不也是我们的孩子吗？
Knut: However old they are now, they will always be our children, right?

克努特：尤里，你擅长组装零件，对吧？——尼基塔，引擎这块可有的你忙了……瓦列里娅，小螺丝的设计少不了你！
Knut: Yuri, you are good at assembling, huh? Nikita, you're going to be busy with the engines. Valeriya, we need you for the screws!

镇民众：……
Residents: ...

越来越多的星星亮了起来。
More and more stars light up.

像是点亮了整片雪原。
They outshine the twinkling snow.

FR-14 从现实到现实 / The Future We Choose

数天后
Days Later

小镇广场（童话一面）

尼娜：维拉老师，大人们似乎一直在做奇怪的事。
Nina: Ms. Vila, they've been doing strange things.

彼得森：父亲搬出了好多旧书，他每天晚上都在摆弄螺丝和图纸。他告诉我：“这些都是拯救小镇的关键。”
Pyotr: Father took out a lot of old books, and he spends most of his time looking over his blueprints now. He said, "They will be the key to saving the town."

彼得森：可是，我看不明白那些书，也帮不上大人的忙……
Pyotr: Shame I can't read those books or help with anything.

尼娜：我的爸爸也是，他又开始捣鼓那些藏在床底下的玻璃瓶了。
Nina: My dad was acting strange, too. He started fiddling with the bottles from under his bed again.

尼娜：不过这次，妈妈没有再拧他的耳朵，还拿出了锁在几个柜子里的珍藏宝贝……
Nina: But Mom didn't scold him this time. She even took out some of her treasures from the cabinet.

尼娜：驯鹿的断角、胡闹桦木的黏液、金齿海豹的胡须……
Nina: Reindeer horn, Noisy Birch sap, Golden-Teeth Seal whiskers.

尼娜：爸爸说，调制出来的药剂能让人一整天都充满力气。
Nina: Dad said his potions would keep everyone energetic for a whole day.

彼得森：就连吝啬鬼叔叔都拿出了他锁在箱子里的宝贝术杖呢！
Pyotr: Even Mr. Miser took out his wand from the safe box!

孩子们凑在维拉的身边，好奇与疑惑写满了每一张稚嫩的脸。
The children cluster around Vila, pleading for answers.

维拉：呵呵……
Vila: Heh heh.

维拉刚想说些什么，急匆匆的脚步声打断了她。
Vila is about to speak when hurried laboring footsteps interrupt her.

帕特里基：让一让，孩子们～
Patrik: Move, kids.

帕特里基：祝健康，维拉同志。
Patrik: Good luck, Comrade Vila.

遗憾的是，这支来自于公共食堂的急行军显然没能如愿行进。
Regrettably, his march cannot proceed.

他们成了孩子们的新目标。
As he's now become the children's newest focus.

尼娜：帕特里基先生……
Nina: Mr. Patrik.

尼娜：您也在做奇怪的事吗？
Nina: Are you doing strange things, too?

肩上扛着的书袋显然逃不过孩子们的目光。
The book bag on his shoulder cannot elude the children's scrutiny.

它并非菜谱，而是某些更厚重的东西。
It is not a cookbook he carries, but something far weightier.

尼娜：《Э-050型挖掘机的使用及维修说明》《СК-1562型起重机操作指南》……
Nina: How to Use and Maintain Model Э-050, Operation Manual of Model СК-1562 ...

尼娜：上面有好多灰尘……它们看上去比我的年纪还要大呢～
Nina: These dusty books ... They look older than me!

帕特里基：哈哈，这些“老古董”可都是我们的学习资料。
Patrik: Hahaha, these "old friends" are our textbooks.

帕索诺：大人们也要考试吗……？
Pasono: Do adults take exams, too?

帕特里基：这可比考试重要得多啦，孩子们。
Patrik: We're doing something far more important than exams, kids.

帕特里基：自打芝诺带来了更新的设备，这些久经沙场的老将很久都没派上用场了。大部分工人同志们对它们相当陌生。
Patrik: We haven't used these old fellas since Zeno brought the new ones. Most of our comrades don't know how to operate them.

帕特里基：但现在，是时候拣起它们了。克努特同志每天都在组织我们学习这些“过时”的技术呢……
Patrik: Now is the time to put them back into use. Comrade Knut has been teaching us how to use these "outdated" technologies.

维拉：是的，大人们被分成了很多个小组。
Vila: That's right. All the adults have been divided into many groups.

维拉：克努特带领着工程小组，帕索诺的叔叔加入了调查队。而尼娜的爸爸，则是魔药恢复小组的一员。
Vila: Knut is leader of the engineering group, and Pasono's uncle is in the investigation group, while Nina's father has joined the potion group.

维拉：每天傍晚，所有人都得参加模拟的魔精训练，分享对付它们的经验。
Vila: All of them take part in the critter combat training at dusk every day, and we share our combat experience with each other.

维拉：为了重新开发我们的矿区，每一个人都在为之努力。
Vila: And everyone is working hard to explore the mine.

孩子们高声地询问着，寻求身边的每一位大人的去向。
The children burst into questions, seeking the current whereabouts and activity of every single adult they can think of.

帕特里基：哈哈～没有芝诺，咱们靠自己也能凿出一片天来。
Patrik: Haha! We will be able to live on our own without Zeno!

彼得森：维拉老师，我也想成为小镇的骄傲！
Pyotr: Ms. Vila, I want the town to be proud of me, too!

尼娜：……我们能做些什么呢？
Nina: Is there anything that we can do?

帕索诺：我有很多铁皮列车的玩具，它们能变成大机器人的零件吗？
Pasono: I have lots of metal toy trains. Can we make components out of them?

帕索诺：它们也会打转……还会像矿车一样呜呜响！
Pasono: They can spin and whistle like a mine cart!

维拉：这是个很棒的想法，它一定能鼓舞更多人。
Vila: That's a great idea. I'm sure it will inspire everyone.

彼得森：不行，先用我的！
Pyotr: No! Let them use mine first!

孩子们争先恐后地举手，像是一位位勇敢的战士。
Hands shoot up among the children, each a ready volunteer.

帕特里基：别着急，孩子们……现在理应是我们付出的时候。
Patrik: Calm down, children. I know you want to do your bit.

帕特里基：但未来，总归是你们的。
Patrik: But our future needs you.

帕特里基：你们现在的工作，就是好好学习，成为来亚什基未来的支柱。
Patrik: Now, your job is to study hard, so Rayashki can rely on you in the future.

帕特里基：明白了吗？
Patrik: Understand?

尼娜：可是，阿夫西维同学呢？我们都找不到他……
Nina: Oh. What about Avgust? We can't find him.

尼娜：如果他没有得到自己的工作，他一定会很难过。
Nina: He'll be so sad if he doesn't get to have a job too.

维拉：呵呵～
Vila: *chuckles*

维拉：别担心，小尼娜……他也在为小镇帮忙，以他的方式。
Vila: Don't worry, Nina. He's helping the town in his own way.

废弃矿区-差分2：旁边有临时搭建的道路与简易围栏

基基图克：&*%#吱——！
Kikituk: *roars*

阿夫西维：耳朵！
Avgust: Ears!

一声枪响后，一只基基图克迅速地逃窜开来。
A gunshot sounds, and a Kikituk swiftly scurries away.

基基图克：呜*/#……
Kikituk: *roars*

阿夫西维：胡须！
Avgust: Whiskers!

开枪
The boy is a conductor of a symphony of arms.

瞄准
而指挥家乐此不疲。

接连不断的振鸣，像是一首宛转而悠扬的乐章。
Gunfire and the noise of battle follow in the wake of the little sunflower's hands.

镇民Ⅰ：真不敢想象，这才几个月的功夫，这儿就彻底成了那群怪物们的游乐场。
Resident I: It's only been a few months. Can't believe the monsters have already occupied the whole place.

镇民Ⅱ：哈哈～多亏了这位古灵精怪的小同志，他总能发现那些不知从哪窜出来的小怪物们。
Resident II: Well, not a problem as long as we got our mischievous little comrade. He always knows exactly where they will come out.

镇民Ⅰ：不然的话，咱们的垦荒队可没法推进得这么顺利。
Resident I: Things wouldn't have gone nearly as smoothly without him.

镇民Ⅱ：要不是北方哨歌同志打包票，真不敢相信他还有这样的才能。
Resident II: I would never have believed he could do this if Comrade Windsong hadn't endorsed him.

镇民Ⅰ：“别小瞧任何一位同志”，这话可不用我再复述了吧……？
Resident I: "Never underestimate any of our comrades, big or small." Do I need to repeat that again?

阿夫西维被紧紧地护在当中。
Of course, Avgust is securely guarded, despite his dangerous mission.

北方哨歌：你做得很好，阿夫西维……你保护了大家。
Windsong: Well done, Avgust. You protected everyone.

阿夫西维：保护……？
Avgust: Protected?

阿夫西维：可我明明在教授那些跳错舞步的坏朋友呀……它们学得可真慢，一点儿也不聪明。
Avgust: But I was just teaching our monster friends how to dance right. They are slow learners.

北方哨歌：是的，这正是你要做的——
Windsong: Yes, that's what we want you to do.

北方哨歌努力组织措辞，试图跟上对方的理解。
She struggles to match her words to her little friend's own imaginative interpretations.

北方哨歌：一场与基基图克们的联合演出。
Windsong: A performance with the Kikituks.

北方哨歌：你的任务是，指出每一个掉队的魔精……咳，朋友的不足之处。
Windsong: Your job is to tell which critter, emm, I mean, which friend, is dancing wrong.

北方哨歌：你擅长这个，不是么？像在旅馆时一样！
Windsong: That's your talent, isn't it? Just like you showed us before!

阿夫西维：噢——！
Avgust: Oh!

阿夫西维：可是，如果它们做得很好呢？
Avgust: But, what if they dance right?

北方哨歌：嗯……？
Windsong: Mmm.

阿夫西维：那它们应该得到奖励，对吧？
Avgust: Then, they deserve some Alenka chocolate, don't they?

是的，总有聪明的魔精能够跟上队伍。
Indeed, for all those scattered, many more come slinking in behind them.

它们如影随形，试图赶走所有入侵者。
They shadow every move, intent on repelling their intruders.

阿夫西维：谢尔吉同志，那位新朋友正在你的脚下……它希望亲吻你的靴子，你愿意和它跳舞吗？
Avgust: Comrade Sergiyan, our new friend is right beside your boots. I think he is hoping to kiss them. Will you dance with him?

普通镇民：……什么？
The Other Resident: What?

北方哨歌：小心！
Windsong: Watch out!

基基图克：吼吼&*%#——！
Kikituk: *roars*

“刺啦——”
*zap*

普通镇民：唔……
The Other Resident: Ah!

叶甫根尼：闪开！
Evgeni: Back off!

叶甫根尼冲上前来，白光穿过了最后一只基基图克的鼻腔。
Evgeni surges forward, white light piercing the last Kikituk's nostrils.

基基图克：——！
Kikituk: ...!

叶甫根尼甩开对方的尸体，任由鲜血滴落在雪地之上。
Evgeni pushes the carcass aside, allowing blood to drip onto the snow.

他直勾勾地盯着北方哨歌。
He fixes intently on Windsong.

叶甫根尼：这儿的魔精数量显然超出了我们的应付能力。
Evgeni: There are many more critters than we can deal with here.

叶甫根尼：很多人受伤了——我们必须撤出这里。
Evgeni: Many of us are injured. We must retreat.

细微的呻吟声从担架上传来，绷带与血渍在雪地上堆成了一座小山。
Faint moans rise from a stretcher, bandages and bloodstains accumulating in a small mound on the snow.

克努特：这可是我们所有人的决定，叶甫根尼同志。
Knut: We made the decision to come here together, Comrade Evgeni.

克努特：我们距离那片黑乎乎的地方越来越近了，可不能在这时候放弃！
Knut: We are so close to the depths. We must not give up now!

普通镇民：嘶……尽管大伙身上都挂了彩，但我们可不是毫无收获的，不是么？
The Other Resident: Hiss, ah! I know everyone's wounded, but look how far we've gone. It's been worth it, don't you think?

北方哨歌：这是我的责任。
Windsong: This is all my fault. I'm sorry.

克努特：别这么说，北方哨歌同志……你为我们提供了一个切实可行的方向，甚至还为我们发掘了一位同志的潜力，对吧！
Knut: Don't be, Comrade Windsong. You've given us a workable plan and helped us recognize our little comrade's potential, no?

他摸了摸阿夫西维的脑袋。
He ruffles Avgust's head.

叶甫根尼：无论如何，他只是个孩子。
Evgeni: He's only a child.

克努特：他同样是我们的一份子，叶甫根尼同志。我们会照顾好他的。
Knut: He's one of us, Comrade Evgeni. I will keep him safe.

克努特：这可不是简单的垦荒……
Knut: We aren't just digging a mine now.

克努特：如果我们成功了，那大伙就不用离开这儿，不必担心无家可归，也不需要放弃任何一个人，不是么？
Knut: If we manage to find this resource, no one will have to leave, and we can continue to live together, right?

叶甫根尼：哼……
Evgeni: Hmph!

周围响起了稀稀拉拉的掌声，而后像抛入干草堆的火苗，迅速地蔓延开来。
Scattered applause burst up like firecrackers, until it becomes a thundering display.

一杆杆翻新打磨的步枪，它们与矿锄合奏，像是一首激昂的进行曲。
Rifles, refurbished and polished, rise in harmony with pickaxes and tools.

克努特：为了咱们所有人，这些伤根本算不上什么。
Knut: These wounds are nothing compared to the glory of our future.

叶甫根尼：我重申一次，我一点儿也不支持你们的莽撞。
Evgeni: Again, I think this is a foolish idea.

他把脚下的雪块踩得粉碎，头也不回地离开了。
He says nothing else, then turns to leave without looking back.

北方哨歌：……！
Windsong: ...!

FR-15 哦草根，草根 / O, Grass-Roots

叶甫根尼：是我。
Evgeni: It's me.

北方哨歌：噢——是你！
Windsong: Oh, you!

叶甫根尼：我想和你谈谈。
Evgeni: I want to talk.

旅馆房间

北方哨歌：你来得正好，叶甫根尼同志，我找到了更详细的资料！
Windsong: I was just about to look for you, Comrade Evgeni. I've found more details!

北方哨歌：它们在这儿……
Windsong: Here.

北方哨歌背过身去，开始翻找如山的资料堆。
Windsong turns away and begins to search through the mountainous piles of documents.

北方哨歌：相信我，这一定能解除你的顾虑……至少一小部分。
Windsong: Trust me, they will ease your mind, more or less.

一阵冷冽的风突兀地袭来。
A cold wind rushes between them through the open window.

叶甫根尼：直入正题吧——
Evgeni: Let's skip to the point.

叶甫根尼：我希望你能终止目前的研究。
Evgeni: I want you to stop your research.

北方哨歌：……什么？
Windsong: What?

叶甫根尼：开垦矿区已经让许多人受伤了，而这只是个开始。
Evgeni: Our exploration has only just started, yet many of our people have already been hurt.

叶甫根尼：你能保证未来不会有人因此牺牲么？
Evgeni: Can you promise there won't be further injuries, or worse, before we've found this fairy-tale treasure?

叶甫根尼：你所称的新资源只是个未知数，而我们不得不为之支付高昂的代价……他们本应在更好的地方参与建设。
Evgeni: Your so-called new resource is still unconfirmed, yet the price we've paid looking for it is already mounting. We had other options, safer options for all of us.

雨点密密麻麻地淋了下来，把北方哨歌浇了个通透。
The snow has turned to wet rain; it splashes up from the windowsill and on to her as they speak.

北方哨歌：我们会用更充分的知识武装自己……
Windsong: We just need to be better prepared. We will arm ourselves with more knowledge for next time.

叶甫根尼：我理解你的诉求，为了你的理线学，是么？
Evgeni: I know what you're after here: the study of ley lines, right?

叶甫根尼：比起这儿只有满腔热情的门外汉，我为你找来了更合适的人选。
Evgeni: The people here may be enthusiastic, but they are only laymen. I've spoken with someone who can help you far more.

不紧不慢的脚步声踏入了房门。
The unhurried steps of expensive boots mark an unfortunately familiar guest.

贝托尔特：很高兴见到你，北方哨歌女士。
Bertolt: It is good to see you, Ms. Windsong.

贝托尔特：或者说，一位来自非正式学科的敏锐学者。
Bertolt: Our proud scholar of a budding, if still informal, school.

他的面庞显得真诚而惊喜，就像是他们从来没见过似的。
His expression is genuine and surprised, as though this is the first time they've ever met.

北方哨歌：你好，芝诺的大人物先生……不得不说，你的态度真让人受宠若惊。
Windsong: And you, the Big Shot from Zeno. Should I feel flattered you stopped by?

对方像是根本没意识到北方哨歌刻意的揶揄。
He feigns obliviousness to Windsong's teasing.

贝托尔特：在叶甫根尼先生的强烈要求下，我向芝诺申请调阅了你的详细资料。
Bertolt: I read your files, as Mr. Evgeni suggested.

贝托尔特：芝诺追踪过许多神秘现象，也勘察过不少的神秘学环境，但从未见过对神秘现象的研究如此执着的年轻人。
Bertolt: You know already that Zeno has investigated many arcane cases and been deployed to many places related to arcanum, but we have never met anyone quite as obsessive in their study as you are.

北方哨歌：那现在呢？……高高在上的大人物打算信任一门乡野学派了？
Windsong: What now? Have the big shots decided they are going to trust my studies?

贝托尔特不置可否地笑了笑。
Bertolt smiles. He always smiles, brimming with all the joy of a crocodile.

贝托尔特：尽管我个人十分欣赏你的坚持，但暂时还不行。
Bertolt: Well, while I might admire your perseverance myself, no, they're not convinced.

贝托尔特：我更好奇的是，遍布全世界的足迹为你和你的学派带来了什么收获吗？
Bertolt: We just wonder what you and your school have gained from this long journey?

他的目光穿过北方哨歌，打量着她身后散落一地的资料与纸张。
He looks past her, assessing the mounds of scattered papers.

北方哨歌：说正事吧。
Windsong: Enough with the crap.

贝托尔特：感谢叶甫根尼同志吧～
Bertolt: As you wish. First, I believe you owe Comrade Evgeni some thanks.

北方哨歌：……？
Windsong: Huh?

一封崭新的推荐信递到了北方哨歌的手上。
A fresh letter of recommendation is handed to Windsong.

贝托尔特：尽管你的成果在芝诺看来并不足够，但叶甫根尼同志主动将自己的名额出让给你。
Bertolt: The less than satisfactory results from your study may not have earned this letter from Zeno, but Comrade Evgeni insisted on us offering it to you.

贝托尔特：在他的举荐下，你获得了一个难得的新机会——芝诺的试验场地，与知名学者的交流机会，一封正式的盖有芝诺印章的推荐信。
Bertolt: Once you have our recommendation, you will be able to communicate with all the renowned scholars in our lab. Your long wait for recognition will be over. A once-in-a-lifetime opportunity.

他的语气不紧不慢，仿佛胜券在握。
His tone is calm. His victory is assured.

叶甫根尼：我唯一的要求是……你能放弃这场不切实际的闹剧。
Evgeni: All I ask is stop this farce.

北方哨歌：……
Windsong: Heh!

收起浮窗道具

北方哨歌：真让人感激涕零……
Windsong: Well, I am so grateful. I think I might cry.

北方哨歌：大家一起巴巴地望着，等着芝诺大发慈悲，为我们分好一个个去处，然后我们再为此滴下几滴热泪来，对么？
Windsong: All we have to do is wait for Zeno's grace to be bestowed on us. We should be moved to tears by your mercy, no?

贝托尔特：撇去你发言中那些情绪化的成分，我不认为这一选择有什么问题。
Bertolt: Putting aside your sarcasm, I would suggest you consider the danger of throwing away this opportunity.

贝托尔特：相比于前赴后继地扑倒在可能性不大的矿区，让所有的精英都能走上正轨，这有什么问题吗？
Bertolt: You are wasting time, effort, maybe even lives on some foolish wild goose chase. We can offer the people here a much safer and more feasible way forward. Don't you see?

贝托尔特挑了挑眉，像是在宣布一条颠扑不破的社会真理。
Bertolt raises an eyebrow. He presents his case less as reason than as indisputable truth.

北方哨歌：那来亚什基呢……？
Windsong: And what about Rayashki?

对方古怪地看了她几眼。
He looks at her pitifully.

贝托尔特：对于一些过时之物而言，悄无声息的消失是最好的结局。
Bertolt: All things come to an end. It will disappear quietly, overtaken by the wilds of this land, when the time comes.

贝托尔特：……当然，它们将会留在历史长河中的某个角落，不是么？
Bertolt: At least, it may leave a small place in the historical records.

贝托尔特：无意冒犯，叶甫根尼先生。
Bertolt: No offense intended, Mr. Evgeni.

叶甫根尼：……如果得不到芝诺的帮助，我们显然无法解决当下的所有问题。
Evgeni: We cannot solve the problems we're having without Zeno's help.

北方哨歌：只要找到新的资源，一切的问题都会迎刃而解——
Windsong: All of these problems will be solved as long as we find this new resource.

贝托尔特：咳咳——你误会了，北方哨歌女士。
Bertolt: Ahem! I'm afraid you're mistaken, Ms. Windsong.

贝托尔特：这片土地对于芝诺的意义在于其中的神秘学家，而不是一个孤零零的空壳。送走所有的镇民后，我们便会将这儿彻底封闭。
Bertolt: As far as Zeno is concerned, the value of this land is exhausted, fairy-tale resources notwithstanding. Once we've transferred the arcanists away, Rayashki will be abandoned.

他终于露出了些许真实的愠怒。
The crocodile smile cracks again, growing annoyed at his now long-overdue victory.

贝托尔特：这是出于芝诺的责任感与危机意识，而非什么别的可能性，你明白了吗？
Bertolt: We are aware of the danger that staying here poses to these people, and it is our responsibility to save them. Whether they wish to resist us or not. That's the only reason for our decision, understand?

北方哨歌：——！
Windsong: ...!

北方哨歌放下了那张凝聚着无数人心血的地脉能量图，什么也没说。
Windsong sets down the ley energy chart, the culmination of her countless efforts, without saying a word.

贝托尔特：还是关注些更现实的问题吧～
Bertolt: Let's be practical.

贝托尔特：芝诺有许多出色的年轻人，有良好的环境……也有更好的未来。如果你能通过考核，你就能得到一个真正重振理线学的机会。
Bertolt: Zeno has many outstanding young people, a strong academic atmosphere, a better future. You will get your opportunity to revive your school of ley lines, if you pass the exam.

北方哨歌：……
Windsong: ...

她的手指按在那张信纸上，手指从新印的纹章上缓缓划过。
Her fingers press onto the paper, tracing a newly embossed seal.

一根比之前更为甘甜与芳香的“胡萝卜”，它无声地倒映在北方哨歌的瞳孔中。
The "carrot" is sweeter and more fragrant than before.

在过去的许多时间里，她曾不止一次地想象过类似的画面。
How long now had she imagined this moment?

在幽闭而沉闷的地下室里，在薪水微薄的编辑社里，在无数促狭而冷冽的目光里。
In dim, stuffy basements, in underpaid editorial offices, under faceless, nameless, scrutinizing gazes.

贝托尔特：这是为了你们所有人好。
Bertolt: This will be a better choice for all of you.

北方哨歌：呵……
Windsong: Haha.

北方哨歌：这位高不可攀的先生，放下你那被消费主义和精英主义彻底销蚀掉的脑袋瓜，你就没理解到点更高尚的原因吗？
Windsong: Mr. Big Shot, could you use your rusted brain to think of a more noble reason than consumerism and elitism?

北方哨歌：我们不愿放弃这里，难道仅仅是因为对个人优渥生活的向往？
Windsong: Do you really think our desire for a better life is the only reason why we refuse to leave?

北方哨歌：你们理所当然地踩着普通的人们跃升，将我们这样的草根芦苇视为理所当然的代价。
Windsong: You used ordinary people as a stepping stone to power and privilege, and even now you take our sacrifices for granted.

贝托尔特：你得面对这个残酷的现实，尽管是芝诺，我们也没法拯救所有人。
Bertolt: Reality is cruel: not you, not Rayashki, and not even Zeno can save everyone. You will have to deal with that.

贝托尔特：倒不如说，这是一种社会运转中必然发生的自我优化。
Bertolt: You should take what is to come as an inevitable optimization of our society's development.

北方哨歌：是的，就算找到了新的资源，他们也不得不面临着更贫乏的生活、更艰难的前路。
Windsong: I know. Life may still get harder even if we find this new resource.

北方哨歌：但那又如何呢？
Windsong: So what?

她终于拾回了某种久违的勇敢。
The defiance in her voice reignites her long-lost courage.

北方哨歌：精英主义的旗帜插满了一切随处可见的角落，但至少它还没能打败这儿。
Windsong: Your brand of elitism may have invaded every corner of the world, but not this town, not yet.

贝托尔特：我理解你，草根学者大都保有如此朴素的认知。
Bertolt: I see, most scholars like you hold the same naivete.

北方哨歌：他们不愿抛下任何一个同胞，不愿为个人的美好未来而放弃没能搭上新快艇的同胞们。
Windsong: They refuse to leave any of their "comrades" behind, even if the price is their own future.

叶甫根尼：……
Evgeni: ...

北方哨歌：让各位前赴后继的并非理线学，也绝非某人的个人理想。
Windsong: What we would sacrifice ourselves for is not the study of ley lines, or any other personal goals.

北方哨歌：——而是千千万万个携手并进的夙愿。
Windsong: But our dream to thrive together!

北方哨歌：一个光明的未来。
Windsong: To live in a bright future we all can share!

北方哨歌：至于这个……
Windsong: As for this ...

她卷起了那张精致的推荐信。
She scrunches up his gaudy recommendation.

画面震动+清晰的揉皱纸团的声音

北方哨歌：我不再需要它了。
Windsong: I don't need it.

贝托尔特：……！
Bertolt: ...!

贝托尔特：呸——草根永远都是草根。
Bertolt: *spits* A leopard never changes its spots.

贝托尔特丢下最后一句话，头也不回地离开了。
Bertolt leaves his final words hanging in the room, departing without looking back.

揉皱的信轻飘飘地飞出了窗外，它落在窗外连绵的大雪中，消失得无影无踪。
The crumpled letter rolls out of the window. It lands in the snow, slowly being covered until there is no trace of it left.

一切会变得更好么？
Will things get better?

北方哨歌无暇他顾，她瘫坐在椅子上，大口地汲取着新新世界的空气。
Windsong, too preoccupied to care, slumps back in her chair, gulping in the crisp air of her new world.

叶甫根尼：……我很羡慕你的单纯，北方哨歌姑娘。
Evgeni: I envy your innocence, Ms. Windsong.

叶甫根尼：在过去的许多年里，我也曾相信过我们是历史性的人物，肩负着改造世界的重大使命。
Evgeni: For many years, I believed that our mission was to change the world.

叶甫根尼：当我抬头看的时候，新世界的大门已经关闭了。来亚什基在惯性中继续向前，我试图维护现在的一切……
Evgeni: But when I looked up, the gate to the new world was already closed. Little Rayashki just coasted along, and I tried to keep everything the way it was.

叶甫根尼：但我失败了。
Evgeni: But I failed.

叶甫根尼：来亚什基已经走上一条注定的路，与所有的努力无关，与我们是否有着坚决的意志无关。我们曾试图生产一个真正的、具有历史意义的东西，但……
Evgeni: Rayashki is doomed. All our efforts, our will, our dreams—nothing can change the creeping reality. We attempted to achieve something meaningful, something that could make history, but ...

叶甫根尼努力昂首，他的面庞隐没在灯光照不到的黑暗里，看不清表情。
Evgeni strains to lift his head, his face obscured in a kind of darkness beyond the reach of light.

叶甫根尼：不仅是芝诺，对于整个世界而言，保守才是当今的主流。
Evgeni: The spirit of the times stands against what we are building here, not just Zeno, but the whole world.

叶甫根尼：现实正是这样，寡淡无味，了无生趣，令所有人失望。
Evgeni: That's what reality is like: boring, cruel, disappointing.

场面一时间陷入了无言的沉默。
The scene falls into a wordless, motionless quiet.

许久，北方哨歌终于慢腾腾地直起身子。
After a long while, Windsong rises.

她终于蜕去了沉甸甸的外壳，甩开了那颗本就不属于她的胡萝卜。
She has shed all other burdens, and the tantalizing carrot is gone.

北方哨歌：你太悲观了，叶甫根尼同志。
Windsong: You are too pessimistic, Comrade Evgeni.

叶甫根尼：……？
Evgeni: Huh?

北方哨歌：芝诺如此反常的积极招徕让我至少确定了一件事。
Windsong: Zeno has tried to recruit me several times. Do you know what I've learned from all their efforts?

北方哨歌：——他们不希望我们继续下去。
Windsong: They don't want us to explore that mine.

北方哨歌：他们努力地贬低我们，为来亚什基的灰暗前路而痛惜，为我们谋划了一条无比远大而光明的前程。
Windsong: They belittled our efforts, offered pity for Rayashki, and then planned out a promising future for us.

北方哨歌：可哪怕有人负伤，甚至因此牺牲——他们也不愿意为来亚什基提供任何多余的帮助。
Windsong: Yet they didn't give us a hand, even when our people were injured or died.

北方哨歌：难道高高在上的老爷们是出于慈悲的关怀，才如此迫切地希望我们停止探索吗……？
Windsong: Do you really think they are so eager to stop us just because they don't want any more sacrifices?

叶甫根尼：——！
Evgeni: ...!

北方哨歌：当然不是，我的朋友。
Windsong: Of course not, my friend.

北方哨歌：就我这些年摸爬滚打得出的经验而言……
Windsong: A lesson I learned from living in their society ...

北方哨歌：——永远别做让你的敌人满意的事。
Windsong: Never do what your enemies want you to do.

她用力地拍了拍对方的肩膀，陌生而熟悉的狡黠又回到了她的脸上。
She grasps his shoulder, giving it a shake to pull him up to his senses.

北方哨歌：芝诺在害怕我们——
Windsong: Zeno is afraid of us.

北方哨歌：他们害怕我们找到新的火种，害怕我们不受蛊惑，拥有只属于我们的、他们无法操控的未来。
Windsong: They are afraid that we may discover a new kindling to relight our fire, that we may burn so brightly that we grow out from their control to create our own future.

叶甫根尼：你……
Evgeni: You ...

北方哨歌：可他们战胜不了我们——来亚什基是我们的，未来也是我们的！
Windsong: But they can't have it their way. Rayashki belongs to us, as does the future!

那团早已燃尽的灰似乎又冒出了些微火星。
Faint flickers of that fire seem to be there, somewhere in the man before her.

叶甫根尼神色复杂地昂起头来。
Evgeni looks up with a complex expression.

叶甫根尼：我会慎重考虑你的看法，北方哨歌……同志。
Evgeni: I, I will give it some thought, Ms. Wi- ... Comrade Windsong.

FR-16 前进进行曲 / Marching March

钢铁巨兽们轰隆作响。
The steel behemoths rumble.

它们驶过压平的雪原，驶过临时开凿的泥浆池，终于驶入了理想之地。
They have plowed through snow, mud, and soil to reach their target.

北方哨歌：……
Windsong: ...

北方哨歌：自从理线学被取消资格之后，我似乎就再也没有进行过关于地脉能量的实证研究了。
Windsong: I haven't done any field investigation of ley energy since our school fell apart.

北方哨歌收起改线尺，双手微微颤抖。
Windsong puts away her tools, hands trembling slightly.

克努特：别紧张，北方哨歌同志——你瞧瞧，这儿的石头还是咱们再熟悉不过的样子。
Knut: Don't worry, Comrade Windsong. Look, these stones are still the same stones we've always known.

他看出了北方哨歌眼里的隐忧。
He catches the worry in Windsong's expression.

克努特：也别害怕失败，北方哨歌同志。成功是建立在无数次失败之上的。
Knut: And don't be afraid to fail. My father told me that failure is just success in progress, hahaha!

克努特：哪怕我们没能找到新的资源，也没能保住来亚什基……
Knut: Even if we cannot find this new resource or save our Rayashki ...

克努特：对咱们来说，能重新回到这儿，一条心地干一件事儿，已经没什么可抱怨的哩～
Knut: We've come back here together and worked for our common goal. We have nothing to complain about.

北方哨歌：……好。
Windsong: Alright.

克努特：无论最后的结果如何，咱们都感谢你的付出。
Knut: Whatever the result, we thank you for your efforts.

克努特：接下来就交给咱们吧——！
Knut: Now leave the rest to us!

他拧过头，朝着钻塔的方向大喊。
He turns his head and shouts toward the drilling machine.

克努特：尤里同志，确认管线连接状况。
Knut: Comrade Yuri, check the connection status.

克努特：可别忘了检查钻机状态，埃琳娜同志。
Knut: Don't forget to check the drill, Comrade Elena.

工人Ⅰ：放心吧，这可比徒手开罐头简单多了～
Worker I: Relax. It's much easier than opening a can with only your fingers.

工人众：哈哈～
Workers: Hahahahaha!

兴奋的队列流动了起来，像一团明亮的火。
The excited queue flows like a steady river.

这儿人头攒动，铁锹、锄头和铲子们协力遮蔽了天空。
People crowd together, shovels, hoes, and picks ringing out in unison.

宏伟的钻塔在雪中坚决地探出头来。
Magnificent drilling machines emerge up from the snow.

钢铁巨兽们相互组合，钻机轰鸣，缓缓向下推进。
They roar as their drills pierce the earth.

顽固的冻土没能阻碍钻头的推进，天空与土地的缝隙间似乎只剩唯一的鸣响。
The stubborn frozen soil does nothing to hinder their progress.

某种高亢而热忱的声响又一次萦绕在北方哨歌的耳边。
Their resonance is a sound that echoes in Windsong's ears, the sound of impassioned unity of purpose and vision.

这儿像是广场，像是公共食堂，像是工厂。
This place is like the square, like their public canteen, like their factory.

像是来亚什基的每一个角落。
Like every corner of Rayashki.

显然，这是值得画下的一幕。
Clearly, it is a scene worth capturing.

阿夫西维：克努特长出了细长的手臂儿，它伸进大家都够不着的地方，捞起地下的石头。
Avgust: Knut had grown a slender arm. One that reached places no one could and picked up stones there.

阿夫西维：不是天上落下来的软绵绵的、云朵儿一样的透明石头，是像阿廖卡一样坚强的石头。
Avgust: They are not like the soft, transparent stones from the sky; these are hard as chocolate!

阿夫西维：我想，它也是一种很好的东西……维拉告诉我，它能变成罐头，变成房子，变成小镇的力量！
Avgust: I think they are good stuff, too. Vila said we could make them into cans and houses to help the town!

阿夫西维：……可是，石头的主人们不会生气吗？
Avgust: But maybe we will irritate the owner of the stones?

忙碌的大人们无暇顾及孩子的呓语。
The busy adults pay no heed to the child's mutterings.

他们围着新采集上来的岩芯管面面相觑。
They gather around the newly collected core samples.

工人Ⅰ：这是100米深度的岩芯管成分……？
Worker I: Am I right that this sample is from 100 meters underground?

工人Ⅱ：没错，如果是找卢恩矿石，咱们一般可打不到这么深的地方。
Worker II: Yes. Usually, we don't need to reach that deep to find runium ore.

克努特：别太紧张，伙计们，这至少证明了来亚什基的底下确实有咱们不知道的新东西。
Knut: Relax, comrades. At least, it proves there is something new under Rayashki.

工人Ⅱ：奇怪，我以从业四十年的经验担保，这看起来可不只是普通的基岩……
Worker II: Hmm, I have been a miner for forty years, and one thing I know for sure is this: this is not bedrock.

北方哨歌：是基基图克的体毛。
Windsong: It's a Kikituk's hair.

北方哨歌小心翼翼地将岩石上的斑斓粉末刮进试管里。
Windsong carefully scrapes the colorful powder from the rocks and places it into a test tube.

在紫光的映照下，表现出斑斓的彩色线条（需对应文本）

北方哨歌：黑色的痕迹正是我们寻找的新矿石，而红棕色的是基基图克，明黄色的是它喜食矿石的亚种，霍伊图克……
Windsong: The black marks are the new resource we're looking for, the red brown ones are the Kikituks, and the bright yellow ones are their mineral-eating relatives, the Hoituks.

北方哨歌：呼……只需一点儿时间，反应仪就能够直观地体现地脉能量的稳定程度。
Windsong: Hmm. The machine will show us the stability of the ley energy in a minute.

收起浮窗道具

周围泛起水波一样的漂浮线条和黑色斑点

北方哨歌：……这儿是地脉能量的源头，它理应是一种纯净的线性能量。
Windsong: We are at the source of the ley energy now, so the lines should have been pure.

克努特：如果咱们的眼睛没糊弄人的话，这看起来可不是什么好消息。
Knut: If my eyes serve me right, I think I see bad news.

北方哨歌：没错，这儿的地脉源头就像是被污水与泥垢过度污染的入海口……
Windsong: You're right. This source is like an estuary polluted beyond recovery.

北方哨歌：它似乎承载了过多的生物与非生物的痕迹。不仅如此，藏在地底的“黑色”矿石吸引了大量的魔精，这加剧了地脉能量的污染……
Windsong: It is carrying too many traces, both from creatures and non-creatures. Besides, the "black" ore down there seems to have attracted a large number of critters, which has only worsened the pollution.

北方哨歌：根据理线师前辈们的笔记推测，当这一现象发生时，只需要一点儿小小的动力源，地脉能量核便会触发自净机制。
Windsong: A senior of mine said in his notes that in this case, it will take a push for the core to activate its self-purification system.

克努特：……？
Knut: Huh?

北方哨歌：糟糕，我们挖到大家伙了！
Windsong: Shoot, we got a big one!

皲裂的地面，有彩色的液体渗出来，像是极光

阿夫西维：海浪！是海浪！
Avgust: Waves! It's seawater!

阿夫西维：我们都应该准备游泳圈。
Avgust: We should have prepared swimming floats.

阿夫西维：是的，戴好游泳圈，坐上雪橇，海浪就追不上我们了！
Avgust: Yes, but the waves won't reach us if we ride the sled!

某种微不可察的震动声悄悄地响起。
There is a slight hum from the vibration.

北方哨歌：“若地脉能量凝成实体，请置入7.62厘米长的海蛇前肢骨，3滴马鞭草的汁液，20毫克的蜗壳锯鳐胚胎……”
Windsong: "If the ley energy materializes, put in a 7.62cm sea serpent bone, 3 drops of common vervain sap, and 20mg of snail sawfish embryo ..."

《地脉能量应急处理指南（试行）》被粗暴地扔在地上，又狠狠地覆上了几个鞋印。
The Emergency Ley Energy Handling Guidelines (Trial) booklet in her hand is thrown to the ground and stamped aggressively.

北方哨歌：&%#！*【德涅斯特河东岸粗口】！
Windsong: Crazy! Whoa!

彩色的黏液仍在源源不断地渗漏而出。
A colored slime continues to ooze out.

它们不再是参考资料上模糊的笔记，而是古怪而完整的实质。
No longer a mere note in her reference materials, but an observable substance.

震动
The clever dreamer continues his observation.

土壤卷曲

起风

震屏

眼尖的孩子仍然继续着他的观察。

阿夫西维：它的脖子上也挂着一颗漂亮的石头——！
Avgust: It has a beautiful stone on its neck, too!

阿夫西维：你的父亲也睡在矿洞里了吗……？
Avgust: Did your father also fall asleep in the mine?

北方哨歌：这该不会就是芝诺一直在找的卢恩原矿吧……该死的，如此精纯的动力源，难怪这儿的能量实体能膨胀得这么厉害……
Windsong: D**n! Is that the raw runium ore that Zeno has been looking for? The energy is so pure. No wonder it materialized into such a huge body.

受此吸引，一颗颗硕大的头颅从周边的废弃矿洞里探出头来。
Drawn in by the spectacle, more creatures emerge from nearby mine shafts.

基基图克：吱吱！@#%@——！
Kikituk: *roars*

它们显然也受到了如此丰裕盛宴的吸引。
Enticed by the potential for a feast.

维拉：同志们，列队防御。
Vila: Comrades, defense formation.

维拉：负责前期勘探工作的生产队员先撤出这里！
Vila: Miners, stay behind us and evacuate!

克努特：手里拿着家伙的同志们跟我来！把它们拿稳，不管是步枪、术杖，还是随便什么能够防身的家伙……这可是小镇的希望。
Knut: Comrades! Stand with me if you've got a weapon! No matter if it's a rifle, a staff, or a shovel. Grip them tight. This is our Rayashki's future we're fighting for!

克努特：……咱们早就准备好了，不是么？
Knut: We've been waiting for this, haven't we?

普通镇民：没错！
The Other Resident: That's right.

越来越多的“武器”举了起来，它们叮叮当当，像是某首进行曲的开篇。
More "weapons" are raised, clanging together as they begin their battle march.

维拉：亲爱的同胞们——
Vila: Dear comrades.

维拉：如今正是小镇生死存亡的危难关头。
Vila: This is the critical moment for our town.

维拉：我们没有优良的武器，没有外界的支持，但我们拥有无数的人们——
Vila: No good weapons, no external support, but we have our friends, our family ...

维拉：无数不愿抛下任何一人的同胞们。
Vila: And each other, who will never leave anyone behind!

北方哨歌：……是的。
Windsong: Yes!

北方哨歌：没什么可怕的。
Windsong: There's nothing to be afraid of.

北方哨歌：我们总能想到办法的，至少，至少——
Windsong: We can always figure it out, so long as ...

维拉：至少我们仍怀揣着希望。
Vila: So long as we still have hope.

响应的声音此起彼伏，恢弘的进行曲终于抵达了最盛大的高潮。
Voices ring out one after another as they reach the end of their march.

聒噪的魔精们统统不见了踪影，巨大的实体也陷入了肉眼可见的萎靡。
The nosey critters have all disappeared, and the strange entity has slumped down.

仍有余力的人们大口喘着粗气。
The gathered warriors are exhausted, but alive.

维拉：我们……成功了么？
Vila: Did we make it?

北方哨歌：在我们驱赶了那些魔精之后，地脉能量的自净机制明显放缓了不少。
Windsong: After we drove the critters away, the self-purification system began to run slower.

克努特：哈哈——！该轮到咱们进攻了，同志们，冲呀！
Knut: Haha! Time to go all out. Let's go, comrades!

工人Ⅰ：为了美好的明天！
Worker I: For a brighter future!

人群争先恐后地涌上前去，他们手中的武器炽热，而他们的心更甚。
The crowd redoubles their strength as they follow Knut forward.

地脉能量？：——！
Ley Energy?: ...!

画面震动
Deafening sounds reverberate all around them.

震耳欲聋的鸣响远远地传了出去。
A brilliant red splashes across the snowfield.

漫漫雪原里泛起一片鲜艳的红。

震屏

工人Ⅱ：唔……
Worker II: Oh!

百团大战

维拉：尤里同志！——再来几个同志，把尤里抬到安全的地方！
Vila: Comrade Yuri! Get a few more comrades here. We need to move him to the back!

我们的同志负伤了，我们的臂膀汩汩冒血，可我们的心仍彼此扶持着。
Many comrades are wounded, blood soaking their arms, but their hearts have not faltered.

绝不退缩，绝不屈服。
Never retreat, never surrender.

切北方哨歌

北方哨歌：它的能量竟然还没有耗尽……这到底是……
Windsong: Its energy has not run out yet. What on earth ...

地脉能量？：！@#%……
Ley Energy?: *roars*

北方哨歌：是那颗卢恩原矿——该死的，它不会还在供给能源吧！
Windsong: That's the ore! D**n it! Don't tell me it's still powering this thing!

工人Ⅰ：我明白了——只要把那颗破石头打碎就行了，对吧？！
Worker I: I see. So we just break that stone, and it's over, right?

北方哨歌：理论上是这样……
Windsong: Yes, theoretically.

北方哨歌大口喘着粗气，语气游移不定。
Windsong's voice wavers as she catches her breath.

淡入

保卫队员Ⅰ：让我来，我是这儿准头最好的！——只要靠近一点儿，再一点儿……
Guard I: Leave it to me. I am the marksman here! Just need to get a little closer, a little closer.

保卫队员Ⅱ：我和你一起去，还有阿德里安同志、丹尼尔同志……多个人多份力气！
Guard II: Comrade Adrian, Comrade Daniel, and I will go with you. There may be something we can do!

淡入

保卫队员众：好——！
Guards: Okay!

维拉：同志们，小心！
Vila: Comrades, watch out!

淡入
They charge ahead, their spirits unwavering.

战士们冲上前去，他们面不改色，脚步没有丝毫迟疑。

画面震动+开枪声

维拉：不——！
Vila: No!

克努特：撤回来，快撤回来——！
Knut: Fall back, fall back!

子弹噼噼啪啪地落下，有如豆大的雨点，溅起一阵阵红色的水花。
Bullets fly through the air, their sound like a relentless pounding hail.

地脉能量？：……
Ley Energy?: ...

克努特：**的【来亚什基粗口】，咱们的子弹完全打不破那颗石头……
Knut: S**t! Our attacks cannot break that stone at all.

震动

维拉：这、这究竟是怎么回事……北方哨歌同志？
Vila: Comrade Windsong, wh-what is going on?

越来越多的红溢满了维拉的双眼，令她几乎失声。
The red splashes around them, so vivid against the white snow, halt her words.

北方哨歌：……
Windsong: ...

北方哨歌：地脉能量的蒸腾、回流是一个漫长的演化过程。它的自然回落也许需要几个月、几年，或是更长的时间……
Windsong: The cycle of ley energy is long. It may take months, years, or even longer than that to return to its source.

北方哨歌：只要我们没法摘掉它脖子上的那颗卢恩原矿……地脉能量就会一直维持自我净化的状态，直到扫空周围的一切。
Windsong: As long as that ore remains on its neck, the ley energy will continue with the purification until it wipes out everything around.

北方哨歌的语气比预想的更加低落。
Windsong's voice is low, despite the din of battle.

克努特：那咱们就只能干等着吗——？
Knut: So all we can do is wait?

北方哨歌：出于安全考虑，在它彻底回流到地下前，恐怕我们都无法在这块地区开采了……
Windsong: For our own safety, we'd better stay out of this area until it completely returns to the source.

北方哨歌：是我的预估不足，我很抱歉……
Windsong: I should've seen this coming. I'm so sorry.

四周歪倒的人们与周围暗红的冻痕让她的声音不自觉地低了下去。
Surrounded by fallen comrades and dark red streaks, Windsong attempts to conceal the fear in her voice.

凛冽的风又一次刮了起来。
The wind rises, sharp and howling.

克努特：——帕特里基同志、尼基塔同志，你们还有力气吧，还有没有人和我们一起？
Knut: Comrade Patrik, Comrade Nikita, you're not done yet, right? Anyone else?

克努特：我们还有挖掘机，有起重机，我们还有力气！
再使把劲，只是颗破石头，我们能做到的——！
Knut: We still got the digger, the crane, and our own strength! Let's try harder! It's nothing more than a stupid stone! We can do this!

克努特：这可是我们唯一的机会了——！
Knut: It's our last chance!

一双双粗糙的手仍然倔强地高举过头顶。
Rough hands stubbornly rise once more, defying the cold wind and danger.

创口汩汩地冒出血来，疼得他龇牙咧嘴。
Trickles of blood seep down their arms from cuts and wounds.

特效-海水翻涌的治疗特效
Warm words cover them like a bandage, offering some solace to their pain.

温润的话语浸透了血迹斑斑的手臂。

维拉：……别再作无谓的牺牲了，克努特同志。
Vila: Stop this senseless sacrifice, Comrade Knut. It's pointless to keep going.

克努特：可……让来亚什基继续发展下去不也是你的理想吗？！
Knut: But, to save Rayashki is also your dream, no?!

克努特：远道而来的小个子信誓旦旦地说会把所有人团结在一块儿，不论身份，也不关乎种族……
Knut: Our little one from afar swore she would unite all of us, no matter who we are or where we're from.

克努特：大伙们可一直都记着呢，我们怎么能这个时候放弃——！
Knut: We must keep all that in our minds. How can we give up now?

巨大的能量实体沉默地矗立着，有如一座无法逾越的高山。
The massive creature stands unmoving, like an unyielding mountain.

维拉：……
Vila: ...

维拉：来到这儿之后，我结识了你们，各位善良而坚定的同志们。
Vila: I'm so happy I came here and made friends with all of you, comrades. You each have a kind heart and a strong will.

维拉：多亏了你们，我那被无数鲁萨尔卡嘲笑的理想似乎不再是遥不可及的梦……它如此真实，如此炽热……
Vila: Before I met you, my dream was only a joke to the other Rusalki, but you've shown me it isn't unreachable. Now it feels so real and heartwarming.

维拉：甚至令我遗忘了身上的棘刺与鱼鳞。
Vila: Sometimes, I almost forget that you see the fins and scales on my body.

维拉：正因如此，我不愿你们的牺牲毫无价值，不愿你们如此仓促地离开。
Vila: That's why I don't want you to sacrifice yourselves for nothing. I don't want to lose you.

她的笑容温暖而满足，像是一束透过乌云的光。
Her smile is a ray of light breaking through the clouds.

维拉：我们希望来亚什基得以延续，不也是基于这最朴素的愿望么？
Vila: What we want is to stay together. That's why we are fighting to save Rayashki, right?

克努特：干这**的世界——！【来亚什基粗口】！
Knut: F**k this world!

阿夫西维：呜呜，天鹅们的羽毛都被折断了……
Avgust: *sobs* The swans have lost their feathers.

阿夫西维：……我们还能飞上天空吗？
Avgust: Are we still able to reach the sky?

茫茫大雪落了下来，像是要为来亚什基的葬礼蒙上最后一层轻纱。
Snow begins to fall again, as if casting a veil over the dead—over Rayashki.

愈发清晰的轰鸣声推开了乌云，失真的声音从其中遥遥坠了下来。
The roar of the wind grows, but there is something else groaning with it. Clouds are pushed aside, and a distorted voice calls out from above.

叶甫根尼：感谢你，北方哨歌同志，你为这儿的所有人找到了新的火种，正如你所承诺的那样。
Evgeni: I must thank you, Comrade Windsong. You've rekindled something in me, in us—a new hope, just as you promised.

叶甫根尼：那天夜晚以后，我读了理线学的部分论文。这是个很有想法的学派，你们的未来理应更光明。
Evgeni: I will tell you that I read some papers on your ley lines after that night. It holds some great ideas, I admit. You and Rayashki deserve a better future.

北方哨歌：……！
Windsong: ...!

渐变黑

视频2-最后的牺牲（一图流，氛围图12）

危机时刻，驾驶着老式军机的叶甫根尼冲向了巨大的地脉能量，飞机的惯性将他们推下了矿山。希望表现出慷慨激昂的，激动人心的氛围，使用阿夫西维的视角。

出现飞机的轰鸣声

视角向上抬，一架老式军机出现在上空，侧写叶甫根尼拿着对讲机说话

地脉能量？：吼#￥*！——！

阿夫西维：哇，勇敢的海燕朋友～
Avgust: Wow, sea swallow, our brave friend!

叶甫根尼：因为我个人对于小镇未来的判断，出于为各位的前程着想，我选择向芝诺推荐了你们。
Evgeni: Comrades, I want you to know I recommended you to Zeno only because I was worried for your future. I did not want you to be stuck in a dying town.

克努特：叶甫根尼……同志？
Knut: Comrade Evgeni?

叶甫根尼：直到现在，我仍痛心于你们的勇敢与坚决，更不希望看到任何一位同胞在这里倒下。
Evgeni: And it gives me pain to see how brave and determined you all have been. I won't let any of you die here.

维拉：叶甫根尼，你要做什么——！
Vila: Evgeni, what are you doing!

推进引擎的加速声

叶甫根尼戴上了飞行眼镜，最后缓缓地向底下的所有人敬礼

叶甫根尼：令人遗憾的是……我似乎早已走上了与各位相悖的道路。但这又有什么关系呢？
Evgeni: The sad thing is I took a very different path long ago. But what does it matter now?

叶甫根尼：你们是这片土壤的骄傲，也将会继续建设这个世界……在任何地方、任何时候。
Evgeni: Rayashki is proud of you. I am proud of you. You will continue to build the new world of your dreams—our dream, no matter where or when.

叶甫根尼：——连同着我的这一份。
Evgeni: I will always be there with you.

临行前，战士笑了笑，留下一句如往常一般的嘱托。

叶甫根尼：抓住机会，北方哨歌同志，维拉同志！
Evgeni: Seize the opportunity, Vila, Windsong, my comrades!

飞机向着地脉能量的位置俯冲

“砰——”
*boom*

在巨大的轰鸣声中，画面逐渐模糊而后清晰（像是小孩子揉了揉眼睛）

飞机的位置变成了展翅的海燕，巨物变成模糊的线条与斑驳的色块，海燕撞向斑驳色块，它们的颜色逐渐黯淡，消失

爆炸的声音

画面缓慢黑屏，镜头逐渐拉远，露出两条飞机喷气尾迹在空中的痕迹，最后痕迹从清晰到消失

在巨大的撞击声中，那颗精纯的、勾起无数战火与纷争的卢恩原矿露出了裂痕。

北方哨歌：Природа это числа и черты.
Windsong: Природа это числа и черты.

它缓缓崩碎，落入无边的深渊。

一切似乎都回归了平静。

显眼的推进痕迹刻在了冻土之上，像是某种永恒的通路。
The trails of the old machines wore deep into the frozen ground, forming a raised pathway that led up and away from the scene.

雪终于停了。

渐入黑

孩子们抽泣声起起落落，仿佛河水化冻。
The children, finally coming to grips with what they've seen, begin to cry.

维拉：……叶甫根尼同志。
Vila: Comrade Evgeni.

鱼会流泪么？
Do fish mourn? Can a Rusalka cry?

似乎没人能回答这个问题。
No one can really answer this question.

这尾来自遥远北方的鲁萨尔卡周围似乎漫起了一片咸涩的汪洋。
Yet around the Rusalka, a ring of salty water seems to rise.

克努特：该死的！这一点都不公平！
Knut: D**n it! This is not fair!

克努特：他凭什么仗着自己是这儿唯一会驾驶军机的家伙就自作主张！咱们应该投票——！举手表决！
Knut: Just because he was the only pilot here doesn't mean he could make that decision alone! We should have had a vote!

工人Ⅰ：那台飞机还是咱们一起修好的呢！
Worker I: We fixed that fighter together!

工人Ⅰ：这个混球，他把我们都扔在这儿了……
Worker I: That a*e left us behind.

工人Ⅱ：咱们永远都是同志，对吧？
Worker II: But he will always be our comrade, right?

时间在无数的沉默中缓缓流过，像是永不回头的长河。
Time appears to stand still, as all present stand unmoving, unspeaking.

终于，许多双手在颤抖中缓缓地举过头顶。
Until one, and then many, trembling hands rise triumphantly into the sky.

北方哨歌：……
Windsong: ...

镇民众：向叶甫根尼同志敬礼——！
Residents: To Comrade Evgeni, salute!

阿夫西维：海燕……去了哪里呢？！
Avgust: But where is the sea swallow?!

维拉：……他飞去了未来，孩子。
Vila: He flew into the future, child.

维拉：一个我们终将抵达的未来。
Vila: The future we'll all reach one day.

FR-17 雪与雪之外的 / Snow, and the Others

失去支持的地脉能量重新回归了大地。
The unsupported ley energy returns to the earth.

土壤的褶皱也被迅速抹平，像是为一幅崭新的油画铺好底色。
The soil is smoothed out, a canvas for a new painting.

克努特：打起精神来，伙计们。
Knut: Take heart, comrades.

克努特：这一切都是为了来亚什基。
Knut: Everything he did was for Rayashki.

维拉：我们的愿望总归是一致的，不是么？
Vila: We shared the same dream, didn't we?

维拉：……为了更多的人们。
Vila: To do all we can for the good of the people.

她望向那片寂静的山崖。
She faces toward the silent cliffs.

工人Ⅰ：报告，钻塔已经清理完毕，随时可以进行新一轮的勘探活动。
Worker I: Reporting: drilling rig clear, ready for new exploration.

克努特：……
Knut: ...

他用力踩实脚下的土地。
He stomps firmly on the ground beneath his feet.

克努特：没错！咱们得一直向前，向前，然后还是**的【来亚什基粗口】向前！
Knut: That's the spirit! We must keep going! Let's get some wiggles!

克努特：尤里，开启机器！
Knut: Yuri, start the machines!

工人Ⅱ：是——！
Worker II: On it!

洪亮的呼号声响起，巨大的钻机缓缓掘入矿坑的更深处。
A loud call resounds, and the huge drill churns once more.

钢铁巨兽的震响声又一次盖过了这儿。
The steel behemoths roar.

它盖过悲伤，盖过阴郁，盖过一切的不可能。
Their sound covering up the sorrow and the gloom of the moment.

不知什么时候，孩子们悄悄来到了山崖边上。
After some time, the children carefully and cautiously approach the cliff's edge.

阿夫西维弯下身子，为勇敢的、陷入常眠的战士拢上被子。
Avgust bends down, placing his sunflower on the edge, as tenderly as a mother tucks in their child.

阿夫西维：这朵向日葵，送给你……它是我最好的朋友。
Avgust: Take this. It's my best friend.

阿夫西维：我想，它很愿意成为你的第二位好朋友。
Avgust: I think it will be glad to have another best friend.

彼得森：我也会成为像你一样的大英雄，这是……这是男子汉的保证。
Pyotr: I will become a great hero like you. It's a promise, a man's promise.

阿夫西维：你的羽毛打湿了吗？彼得森。
Avgust: Why are your feathers wet, Pyotr?

彼得森：……
Pyotr: ...

阿夫西维：北方哨歌湿漉漉的……长大了的孩子也会哭吗？
Avgust: You have water on your face, Ms. Windsong. Can kids still cry after they grow up?

北方哨歌：……
Windsong: ...

北方哨歌：我准备得还不够……
Windsong: I should've known ...

北方哨歌：既没能预料到地脉能量的反常波动，也对它对魔精们的吸引力估计不足……
Windsong: The abnormal fluctuation of the ley energy, and how much of an attraction it is to the critters ...

北方哨歌：一切都与理论中的有所偏差……
Windsong: I should've noticed they were different from my theory.

喃喃自语间，有人轻轻拍了拍她的后背。
Her words are met by murmurs, but a familiar hand wraps hers gently.

维拉：至少理线学收获了一次宝贵的经验，不是么？
Vila: At least this experience will be valuable for the study of ley lines, won't it?

维拉：将这一成果发扬光大吧……我坚信，它能帮上未来更多人的忙。
Vila: Take it in, and make something of it. I'm sure it will be of more help in the future.

维拉：这不只是为了你我，也同样是为了逝去的人。
Vila: You're not only doing this for yourself or for me, but for those who sacrificed for all of us.

北方哨歌：……
Windsong: ...

“轰隆——！”
*boom*

工人Ⅰ：挖上来了！新的石头挖上来了！
Worker I: We found it! This must be the new resource!

沉重的矿石堆里，一颗颗黑黢黢的矿石升了起来。
A stream of black rocks rises from the pile, one by one.

它们在空中纷飞着，在无数人的手中传递着——
In a short time, they are picked up and passed through countless hands.

像是盛开的礼花，又像是来自新世界的致意。
The air is thick with black dust that covers coats, gloves, boots, and faces.

推镜

克努特：煤炭——！
Knut: COAL!

克努特：是煤炭！我们真的发掘出了新的资源。
Knut: It is coal! We did it!

帕特里基：我宣布，今晚的晚饭即将使用我们的煤炭作为燃料。
Patrik: This is our coal! Comrades, we will use it to cook our meal tonight!

镇民Ⅱ：那将会成为我此生吃到的最美味的一顿饭！
Resident II: And it will be the best meal I've ever had!

帕特里基：这可算不上什么好话，尼基塔同志——！
听起来你对我之前的厨艺颇为不满啊……
Patrik: Is that so, Comrade Nikita? You got a problem with my food, huh?

镇民Ⅰ：哈哈～
Resident I: Hahahaha!

克努特：我估摸着，这儿的煤炭还能让来亚什基不眠不休地开采几百年呢！
Knut: I made a rough estimate. The reserves here should last hundreds of years!

北方哨歌：……直到今天，理线学终于完成了第一次实证。
Windsong: For the first time in history, the theory of ley lines has been verified.

维拉：毫无疑问，你们应该得到一个更公正的评价。
Vila: There is no doubt your work deserves a fair assessment now.

北方哨歌：感谢你的帮助，维拉女士。
Windsong: Thank you for your help, Ms. Vila.

维拉：这并非某一个人的功劳，不是么？
Vila: We achieved this together, didn't we?

北方哨歌：当然。
Windsong: Of course.

欢呼声远远地传了出去，穿过人群，翻越无垠的冻土。
Cheers travel forward and back over the crowd and out into the boundless tundra.

在那沉寂的、不再言语的山崖久久回响着。
They echo against the cliffs.

北方哨歌：这场胜利属于我们每一个人。
Windsong: The glory goes to every one of us.

喜悦又重新占领了小镇的每一处角落。
Their joy reaches back to the town, carried in by the victorious comrades-in-arms.

遗憾的是，不请自来的客人们似乎难以共情。
Unfortunately, their now-unwelcome guests seem unable to share in the enthusiasm.

鼓掌的声音+脚步声

贝托尔特：北方哨歌女士，很高兴见到你。
Bertolt: I'm very glad to see you again, Ms. Windsong.

北方哨歌：是么？你的表情可一点儿也看不出来。
Windsong: Hmph! Are you? You don't look glad at all.

贝托尔特：呵……我不得不承认，我低估了这儿的所有人。
Bertolt: Heh. I admit, I underestimated the people here.

贝托尔特：当然也包括你，北方哨歌女士。
Bertolt: Especially you, Ms. Windsong.

贝托尔特：你找到了深埋在地底的煤矿，成了这儿的大英雄……
Bertolt: The great heroine who found coal deep beneath the town.

北方哨歌：还让芝诺的小算盘扑了个空～
Windsong: So, did I manage to ruin Zeno's little plans?

贝托尔特：……
Bertolt: ...

伶牙俐齿的草根学者在语言交流上从不示弱。
Her sharp tongue breaks the cool of the no longer smiling crocodile.

贝托尔特：芝诺在这儿的行动结束了，我们很快就会离开这里。
Bertolt: We have nothing left to do here. Zeno will leave soon.

贝托尔特：尽管你我意见不一，但芝诺仍然期待着与你的下一次合作。
——以更和谐的方式。
Bertolt: I know we disagree on many things, our future included. Still, Zeno looks forward to working with you again, hopefully in a more friendly way.

他自顾自地伸出手来。
He extends his hand on his own initiative.

北方哨歌：但愿如此。
Windsong: I hope so, too.

北方哨歌：你也一定不希望我再做出什么草根学者的无理举动。
Windsong: You don't wanna be embarrassed by another lowly researcher again, do you?

贝托尔特的手尴尬地悬在空中，无人问津。
Bertolt's hand awkwardly hangs in the air, unanswered.

贝托尔特：再见，北方哨歌女士。
Bertolt: Goodbye, Ms. Windsong.

北方哨歌：……
Windsong: ...

北方哨歌：等等——！我还有最后一个问题！
Windsong: Wait! I have one last question!

贝托尔特：请问。
Bertolt: Please, I'm at your service.

北方哨歌：几个月前，芝诺便在这儿确认了霍伊图克的踪迹。你们三缄其口，无声无息地扫清了它们……
Windsong: Zeno confirmed the existence of Hoituks in Rayashki months ago, but you just took care of them without letting anyone know.

北方哨歌：你们早就知道这儿可能存在大量的煤炭资源——？！
Windsong: You already knew there would be a large reserve of coal here, didn't you?!

贝托尔特：……
Bertolt: ...

对方耸了耸肩，什么也没说，头也不回地离开了。
He shrugs and leaves without another word.

FR-18 你好，来亚什基 / Hello, Rayashki

小镇广场（现实一面）
The people gather again.

人们又一次汇聚在了一起。
This time, though, there are no more disputes, no resentment.

但值得庆幸的是，没有争端，没有怨愤。
This is a gathering of joy.

这是一场属于所有人的会议。

维拉：经过审慎的讨论，来亚什基全体居民都做出了最后的选择。
Vila: After thorough discussion, the people of Rayashki have made their final decision.

维拉：现在，我正式宣布关于来亚什基的处理方案——
Vila: I stand here to declare the future direction of Rayashki.

维拉：来亚什基从即日起不再附属于任何组织，关停所有卢恩矿石的相关工厂。
Vila: As of today, Rayashki will be no longer affiliated with any organizations, and all factories dedicated to processing of runium ore will be shut down.

镇民Ⅰ：那咱们能做些什么呢——？
Resident I: What are we going to do for our work, then?

镇民Ⅱ：我可不想闲在家里，每月巴巴地等着救济金。
Resident II: I don't want to sit around at home living on benefits!

维拉：我们能做许多事，瓦列里娅同志。
Vila: There will be many things to do, Comrade Valeriya.

维拉：绝大多数的能源被屈指可数的寡头们把持，他们利用战争、权力操控着属于普通人的一切。
Vila: As the elites above us struggle for power, we ordinary people suffer in darkness.

维拉：而现在，至少人们多了一处新煤矿。
Vila: But now, there will be a new source of power, one built to lift up the people not to take from them. And it will run on Rayashki coal.

维拉：我们将在来亚什基开展新的工厂线，并积极探索与周边地区的煤炭工业的合作可能性。
Vila: We will start new factories in Rayashki and explore the possibilities of working with other coal producers nearby.

维拉：我们可以依靠自己的双手，开采煤矿，发展效益。
Vila: We will mine with our own hands and feed ourselves.

克努特：没准、没准咱们还能建造船坞，把它们送到更遥远的地方。
Knut: Maybe we can even build a dock and sell our products far away.

人们七嘴八舌地议论了起来。
The people chatter excitedly.

维拉：我们希望来亚什基能够成为一面新的旗帜——
Vila: We will raise a new banner above Rayashki, one welcoming all ordinary people ...

维拉：一个为更多的普通人们供给低价煤炭、发光发热的地方。
Vila: ... to come to a livable place with abundant power and job opportunities for their future.

无数热切的目光交织在一起，唤起如潮般的掌声。
Arms and smiles intermingle, then a rising wave of applause.

潮水漫过了所有人，当然也包括北方哨歌。
The wave washes over everyone, including Windsong.

维拉：那么你呢？北方哨歌同志。
Vila: What about your plan, Comrade Windsong?

北方哨歌：……
Windsong: ...

北方哨歌：我打算暂时留在这儿。
Windsong: I think I'm going to stay for a while.

维拉：为了缩减成本，我们必须得作出短暂的牺牲……之后，所有人在来亚什基的待遇都会被削减，直到来亚什基步入新的轨道。
Vila: You need to know that for now we must tighten our belts. Everyone's rations must be cut for some time until Rayashki gets back on its feet.

但对方似乎丝毫没有动摇。
The researcher does not waver, not in the slightest.

北方哨歌：相比于光鲜亮丽的学术舞台，至少现在，理线学更适合呆在这儿。
Windsong: At least for now, the study of ley lines belongs here, not in the fancy halls and symposiums of human academia.

北方哨歌：关于这儿环境的演变，地脉能量图的进一步完善，以及基基图克们的生物性变化……
Windsong: This place still holds many possible research avenues: monitoring the changes in the environment, further detailing the local ley energy map, maybe even studying the mutation of the Kikituks.

北方哨歌：它们都是理线学亟待解决的重要课题。
Windsong: I must finish them to further develop the study before it is ready for academia again.

维拉：听上去，你要在这儿呆上一段不短的时间。祝你成功。
Vila: Then it sounds like you may be with us for a long time yet, good.

两人相视一笑。
They exchange smiles.

维拉：也欢迎你来参观来亚什基新的剪彩仪式。
Vila: And don't forget, you are expected to cut the ribbon at the ceremony.

这只热情的手又一次伸到了北方哨歌的面前。
An enthusiastic hand reaches out to Windsong once again.

逐渐黑屏+脚步声
Now, the little arctic town is covered in a strange mix of black coal soot and bright yellow flowers, a warm wind blowing over every inch of soil and each wall, old and new.

渐现
It flows like blood through snow-white skin and fluffy pores. A scene like a hand-drawn picture.

现在，这座漂亮的北极小镇被黑色的炭球与明黄色的花朵覆盖着，暖和的风途经每一寸土壤与砖墙。

像是雪白肌肤下流动的血液与蓬松的毛孔，又像是未经修磨的手绘图画。

北方哨歌：……
Windsong: ...

广场
Windsong walks alone through the town, feeling the energy of the earth beneath her.

广场的地面开满了向日葵
Townsfolk pass her.

北方哨歌独自走在小镇上，她走得很慢，像是融入了这片土壤。
They nod and greet her with hopeful smiles.

形形色色的人们从她的身旁经过。

点头，致意。

童话广场

彼得森：北方哨歌老师——我为当时课堂上的无礼向您道歉。
Pyotr: Ms. Windsong, I want to apologize for being rude to you during class.

彼得森：下次我一定请您品尝最好的友谊牌奶酪，我保证！
Pyotr: I'll bring you some Friendship cheese next time, to apologize. I promise!

克努特：你永远是咱们的朋友。
Knut: You will always be our comrade.

克努特：向你致敬～
Knut: Hats off to you!

远处，成群结队的孩子们簇拥着一位鲜艳的向日葵。
In the distance, children cluster around a vibrant field of sunflowers.

阿夫西维：北方哨歌——！
Avgust: Ms. Windsong!

阿夫西维：我们的剪彩仪式表演得很好！
Avgust: I think we performed very well at the ceremony!

向日葵朝她挥手，在雪地上蹦蹦跳跳。
The boy, bright as any other sunflower, waves to her as he hops joyfully in the snow.

阿夫西维：你还会给我们上课吗？
Avgust: Will you come teach us again?

尼娜：还有我们——！
Nina: We want to learn more, too!

帕索诺：我也是！
Pasono: Same here!

阿夫西维：♪～♪♪～
Avgust: ♪♪♪

阿夫西维：北方哨歌姐姐，我们种下的向日葵长出来了——！
Avgust: Ms. Windsong, the sunflowers we planted are blooming!

阿夫西维：我们成功地保护了小镇！
Avgust: We protected the town!

北方哨歌想说些什么，突然的轰鸣声吸引了所有人的注意。
Windsong wants to say something, but a sudden creaking draws up her attention.

抬头
She looks up to see a construction crane looming over the town.

她抬起头来，巨大的起重机正低头俯瞰着这座小镇。
The new coal refinery, a school, a hockey field, the dormitories ...

逐渐白屏（模拟刺眼的白光）
In the boundless future ahead for Rayashki, these buildings will be like speckled grains of sand cast over the tundra.

视频3-来亚什基剪彩仪式（氛围图使用13、14）

旧有的小镇招牌轰然倒塌，起重机托着一座抱着矿锄的北极熊塑像缓缓向小镇的中心移动，经过许多人，希望表现出宏大的、圆满的氛围，镜头随着起重机的运动移动

小镇的正门处，卢恩矿石标志的招牌倒塌，溅起灰尘

“轰——！”

灰尘消失，起重机吊着的北极熊雕塑升起，缓缓移动，经过许多建筑

新的煤矿工厂，来亚什基小学，冰上曲棍球场，集体宿舍……

在来亚什基，或者说，在更广袤无垠的理想未来里，它们都像是粒粒斑驳的沙砾。

画面里需要依次出现路人们、维拉、孩子们、阿夫西维

全体镇民：……
Residents: ...

北方哨歌：这儿有许多希望汇入其中的沙砾。

北方哨歌：……我也一样。

最后画面定格在北方哨歌与北极熊的位置

北方哨歌：你好，来亚什基。
Windsong: Hello, Rayashki.

FR-19 致后代 / To Descendants

激昂的时间河流在这儿悄无声息地摆荡了数月。
The river of time has moved swiftly in the passing months.

熙熙攘攘的人声此起彼伏。
Rayashki is bustling with the sounds of a busy and hopeful community.

人群在这里合流，又在这里分散，奔向各自的位置。
Crowds of people, lively and spirited, weave to-and-fro.

来亚什基游泳场

泳池

一个灰头土脸的人影急匆匆地挤进了这里。
A disheveled figure hurries into the scene.

北方哨歌：万幸——你果然在这里！
Windsong: Thank goodness! I was hoping you'd be here!

北方哨歌：……不过，我是不是应该回避一下？
Windsong: Oh, erm, is this a bad time?

维拉：呵呵，没什么好奇怪的，随便坐吧～
Vila: Heh heh, no, it's alright. Have a seat.

维拉：我并不是血统纯正的鲁萨尔卡。如你所见，每隔一段时间，我都要回到水中，汲取海洋所赋予我们的灵感与养分。
Vila: I'm not a pure Rusalka. As you can see, I must get in touch with water every once in a while to replenish my power from the ocean.

北方哨歌：咳——你好，维拉同志。
Windsong: Ahem. Hello, Comrade Vila.

维拉：好久不见，北方哨歌同志。
Vila: It's been a while, Comrade Windsong.

维拉：我听说你整天在矿区里奔波，越来越多的工人们认可了理线学。
Vila: They say you're working hard in the mine, and the study of ley lines is getting popular among the workers.

北方哨歌：他们帮了我很多忙……如果没有他们，对来亚什基环境的研究不会这么顺利。
Windsong: They have helped a lot. My research on the environment wouldn't have gone nearly so smoothly without them.

北方哨歌：理线学在这里重获新生，生根发芽……甚至得到了外部的认可。
Windsong: It's given a second life to my studies, and it is growing so well. It has even gained some recognition beyond Rayashki.

北方哨歌：我……很高兴能来到这儿。
Windsong: I, I'm truly happy that I came here.

维拉：真没想到，对自己所研究的理论顽固而自信的北方哨歌同志也会露出如此羞怯的一面。
Vila: I never thought the Comrade Windsong would be so bashful over her accomplishments. I thought you were more stubborn and confident than that.

北方哨歌：……
Windsong: ...

维拉：我并没有取笑你，北方哨歌同志。事实上，你远不如看上去那般无所畏惧，不是吗？
Vila: I'm only teasing, comrade. It's a matter of fact that you are not as fearless as you pretend to be, isn't it?

维拉：这也正是人们紧紧团结在一起的理由，我们弥补不足，也……
抱歉，我的职业病又犯了～
Vila: That's why we must all stick together to make up for each other's weaknesses and make Rayashki proud! Sorry, speeches have become an occupational habit.

北方哨歌：好吧，我承认。
但这没什么好奇怪的，你也远没有表面上那么温柔，是吧？
Windsong: Fine, you got me. But it's not a big deal. Just as you are not quite the gentle and demure school teacher that you appear to be, are you, comrade?

北方哨歌：——我们扯平！
Windsong: We're even!

聚焦北方哨歌
Windsong clears her throat and hands the letter to Vila.

北方哨歌补救性地轻咳了两声，将手中的信件递给了维拉。

北方哨歌：我是来向你告别的……
Windsong: Actually, I've come to say goodbye.

北方哨歌：科算中心邀请我参加即将在欧洲分部举办的讲座，他们希望我以来亚什基为案例，介绍理线学是如何将神秘学与环境分析学结合起来的。
Windsong: Laplace has invited me to give a lecture for their European branch. They want me to give a lecture on how I combined environmental analysis with the arcanum based on what we've done here in Rayashki.

维拉：听起来是个良好的开始。
Vila: Sounds like a very promising new beginning for your studies.

北方哨歌：来亚什基发展得如何？
Windsong: How are things going in the town?

维拉：到这儿来参观的游客们变多了，他们相当热情，希望见证某些不一样的东西。
Vila: We are getting more visitors now. It seems people are eager to see something different.

北方哨歌：我敢肯定，他们会得偿所愿的。
Windsong: I'm sure they will.

维拉：我们与周边的许多地方都达成了合作，甚至包括基金会。
Vila: We've also begun cooperating with many governments and agencies near us, including the Foundation.

维拉：他们希望为孩子们进行一些简单的神秘学短期培训。
Vila: They hope to carry out some short-term training on the arcanum for the children.

收信
Another letter is passed on.

维拉上岸

维拉动作

另一封湿漉漉的信被递了上来。

北方哨歌：这是……？
Windsong: What's this?

维拉：拆开看看吧，这是从基金会寄来的。
Vila: Open it. It's from the Foundation.

打开信

维拉：命名日先生邀请我到基金会去，与他们商谈更多的合作方案，孩子们也在那儿等着我。
Vila: Mr. Name Day invites me to visit the Foundation and discuss further cooperation. The children are also waiting for me there.

维拉：在基金会学习的时候，他们也一直念叨着你。
Vila: It seems they mentioned you all the time during their training.

维拉：“我们错过了理线学的考试吗？”
Vila: "Did we miss the ley line exam?"

维拉：“基金会里有许多神奇的东西……”
Vila: "The Foundation has all sorts of incredible things."

“阿夫西维”：这儿有会咬人的金币、咋咋呼呼的小煤球、捕捉彩虹的玻璃笔……还有很多很多好玩的东西。
"Avgust": Like biting coins, noisy coal balls, a glass pen with rainbows inside. So much fun!

“帕索诺”：我学到了许多神秘学咒语！
"Pasono": I've mastered a lot of incantations!

“尼娜”：我很想念小镇的大家……
"Nina": I miss the town and everyone.

“阿夫西维”：没错，我们想念阿廖卡同志，想念布林同志，还有友谊同志！
"Avgust": Yeah. We miss Comrade Alenka, Comrade Blinchik, and Comrade Piroshki!

“彼得森”：几个月后，我们就能回家了！
"Pyotr": They say we will be able to go home in a few months!

“彼得森”：我一定能学会最厉害的神秘术，保护好小镇的安全！
"Pyotr": I must master the most powerful arcane skills by then, so I can use them to protect the town!

“阿夫西维”：我们也会变成海燕！
"Avgust": We'll transform into sea swallows!

“阿夫西维”：飞呀～飞呀～飞到更远的地方！
"Avgust": Then we'll be able to fly and fly to far, far away!

缓缓黑屏

调试

电台主播Ⅰ：今日，卡斯林斯卡医学院附属医院接收了一例罕见病例。
Radio Broadcaster I: The Kaslinska University Hospital received a rare case today.

电台主播Ⅰ：某患者血管呈现出了不可逆的电线化特征。截止至18：00时，该患者全身的动脉、静脉及毛细血管组织均已坏死。
Radio Broadcaster I: The patient's veins irreversibly transformed into electric wires. As of 18:00, all arterial, venous, and capillary tissues throughout the patient's body have undergone necrosis.

电台主播Ⅰ：卡斯林斯卡医学院院长受访时称，他们将邀请更多专业人员参与会诊，商讨后续的研究工作。
Radio Broadcaster I: The director said they would invite more professionals to the consultation to decide on further research directions.

电台主播Ⅰ：《世界新奇报》声称，“电线人”症状将会成为新的未解之谜。
Radio Broadcaster I: Global Variety News has claimed the case may become one of the greatest unsolved mysteries of the era.

电台主播Ⅰ：同时，他们发起了专栏活动，旨在分析该“电线人”的血管构造对不同电器的应用频率。
Radio Broadcaster I: They started a new column to analyze possible compatibilities between the patient's new wired veins and different appliances.

电台主播Ⅰ：本电台将持续为您报道——
Radio Broadcaster I: Please stay tuned for more details.

调试

电台主播Ⅱ：近日，“飞毯旅行社”将组织一场巡游北欧的浪漫之旅。
Radio Broadcaster II: The Flying Carpet Travel Agency is starting a tour around Northern Europe ...

电台主播Ⅱ：在那里，你们能见证浪漫的极光，与毛绒绒的奇肯恩们亲密接触，享受雪地飞毯竞速赛……
Radio Broadcaster II: ... where you will be able to see the breathtaking aurora borealis, pet fluffy Qiqirns, and even enjoy a flying carpet race.

电台主播Ⅱ：最后，我们将会抵达一座神秘的小镇，来亚什基。
Radio Broadcaster II: The destination of our tour is Rayashki.

电台主播Ⅱ：那儿有丰富的煤矿，是北极最温暖的地方。
Radio Broadcaster II: A mysterious town, the warmest place in the Arctic Circle, sitting atop many rich veins of coal.

电台主播Ⅱ：在那儿，相比支付金钱，我衷心希望各位参与一些力所能及的劳动来换取所需。当然，这并不是强迫性的。
Radio Broadcaster II: When you get there, we suggest that you abide by the town's wishes and work to earn what you need instead of buying it. Though this is not an obligation, of course.

电台主播Ⅱ：但是，倘若我们能见证一种崭新的、更美好的理想生活，为何不亲自试一试呢？……我相信，它不会令你们失望的。
Radio Broadcaster II: But why not have a try when you are given the opportunity to experience a new and better lifestyle? Trust me, you won't be disappointed.

像是关掉收音机，啪的一声

逐渐黑屏，黑屏较长时间

远方的故人打字机效果*不计入版本资源内

？？？：呵呵……
???: Heh heh.

？？？：我该从何说起呢？UTTU的读者们。
???: Where should I start, dear readers?

？？？：它是一颗镶嵌在永恒灰白色冻土上的珍贵宝石，也是一面鲜红的旗帜，或许未来会更加鲜红。
???: Rayashki is like a sparkling gem embedded into the permafrost. And above flies an eye-catching banner. Perhaps it will draw even more attention in the future.

？？？：在过去的许多年里，这里的居民希望建立一种不太一样的东西。
???: Through the past decades, the citizens there have been trying to achieve something different for themselves.

？？？：这是一场漫长的奋斗。
???: A great cause which may take the work of generations to achieve.

？？？：终于，他们不再是位于某个极北之地的一处历史的注脚，不再是一个将被悄然忘记的遗憾。
???: But now they are no longer a nameless town in the far north, nor is their dream a passing fad bound to be forgotten.

？？？：我很希望各位能够见证它的当下与未来。
???: I sincerely hope all of us will be able to witness its history and its future.

？？？：因此，我设法记下了它，也希望这段岁月能够留存在你的心中。
???: That's why I knew I must write down this story. In the hopes that their dream will remain in your heart forever.
