地球上最后的夜晚 - Last Evenings on Earth

目录

- LEE-01 船讯 / A Message Delivered
- LEE-02 “自由海风” / "Free Breeze"
- LEE-03 密码学入门 / Cryptography for Beginners
- LEE-04 时代之声 / Music of the Era
- LEE-05 离港日 / The Day We Set Sail
- LEE-06 群岛已远 / As Home Fades
- LEE-07 音乐或亮光 / Music or Light
- LEE-08 老调子 / An Old Song at Sea
- LEE-09 战争与和平 / Science Salon
- LEE-10 一面又一面 / Piracy—Not the Fun Kind
- LEE-11 我可恨的乡土啊 / The Hateful Hometown
- LEE-12 三个音乐家 / Clashing Genres
- LEE-13 太阳之死 / End of the Sun
- LEE-14 紧急通讯 / A Call for Help
- LEE-15 海风儿在翻阅 / A New Page Turned
- LEE-16 意大利之歌 / Barcarolle
- LEE-17 不和谐音 / Dissonance
- LEE-18 二十七岁俱乐部 / The 27 Club
- LEE-19 我们称作乡愁之物 / The Pain of Missing Home
- LEE-20 向别处 / To Elsewhere, To Home
- LEE-21 最后一次告别 / Final Farewell
- LEE-22 我不曾遗憾 / Without Regret
- LEE-23 海中升起的她 / Finding Home on the Waves

LEE-01 船讯 / A Message Delivered

当第一条告诫在贝壳上显现的时候，我们抵达了别处、岛和永恒的土地。
When the first proverb appears on the shell, we reach the shores of elsewhere—the island, the upturned palm of Mother Sea.

小船儿哟，停泊在沙儿上
The once drifting boat now beds itself in the golden sand.

当第二条告诫在贝壳上显现的时候，我们生起熊熊篝火。
When the second proverb appears on the shell, we kindle the fire—the crackling warmth, the spark of hope.

欢乐的人们哟，日日年年
The joyful people are long blessed as one.

当第三条告诫在贝壳上显现的时候，我们习得海的慷慨。
When the third proverb appears on the shell, we accept the sea's gift—the rolling waves, the plentiful fish.

纯洁的海风哟，映照我身
The cool sea breeze cradles us.

当第四条告诫在贝壳上显现的时候，我们承受煎熬、绳索与思念的盐。
When the fourth proverb appears on the shell, we face the test—the salty tears, the longing gaze.

海的那边哟，不是家园
Beyond the sea, I find no home.

图图石子、卡穆塔：不是家园

卡穆塔：我们的祷告结束了。做得很好，图图石子。
Kamuta: You did well today, Tutu.

图图石子：为了庆祝几个月前顺利结束的船商贸易节，大家都准备了许多，我也只是在做我的工作～
Fatutu: Thank you, Kamuta! I was just playing my part in celebrating the success of the trade season. Nothing special, really.

图图石子：只是……
有什么事情比我们的篝火晚会更加重要呢？
Fatutu: But what are we doing here? What could be more important than the celebration?

图图石子：哥哥，你可从来没在这个时候偷偷溜出来过呀～
Fatutu: I've never seen you sneak off on a bonfire night before.

卡穆塔：……
Kamuta: ...

卡穆塔：我希望你能带领朋友们一起修好那艘废弃的船。
Kamuta: Tutu, do you think you and your friends could fix up that old ship?

卡穆塔：托阿、塞洛尼，还有其他的朋友们，你总能得到他们编好的第一串花环……大家一定都很乐意为你搭把手。
Kamuta: I know you're close with Toa, Selone, and the rest. They always make sure their first fous go to you. I'm sure they'd be happy to lend you a hand.

卡穆塔：老人们也不止一次地夸赞你，希望在自己死后将他们的“象形贝壳”传承给你。你能说服他们的，对不对？
Kamuta: And the elders like you, too. I've heard many of them say they'll leave their Spirit Shells to you. So you can win their support, too, right?

图图石子：等一等，哥哥。你说的是……修理“丰收满满号”？
Fatutu: Woah! Slow down, big chief! Are you saying you want to fix up the Quick Spear?

卡穆塔：……是的。
Kamuta: Hm! Yeah.

图图石子：可它明明已经损坏很久了。我不明白，哥哥……我们为什么突然就得修好它呢？
Fatutu: But why? We've kept it docked for years.

卡穆塔：总有一天我们得出海捕鱼，或是去某个别的小岛待上一阵子……
Kamuta: Maybe one day we'll need to set sail again—to fish or spend some time on another island.

图图石子：可是，我们有几个月一次的船商贸易节，有露兜树果和红鲷鱼……我们怎么会离开这儿呢？
Fatutu: But, the merchants already come by every few months to bring us hala fruits and red snappers. Why would we need to sail?

卡穆塔在图图石子的眼前来回踱步，堵在嘴边的话几乎重逾千斤。
Kamuta paces back and forth in front of Fatutu, the words stuck in his throat.

卡穆塔：万一这儿很快就会遭到一场风浪的侵袭呢？万一我们的房屋被冲垮了呢？万一……
Kamuta: Yeah, but what if a storm hits? Are we just going to sit around and let the waves wash away our homes?

图图石子：我们可不是第一次遇上这样糟糕的事了，努库泰澳人能面对这些威胁。
Fatutu: We've been through much worse than a few storms.

图图石子骄傲地昂起头来。
She raises her head proudly.

图图石子：海水一次次地漫上来，它们“轰隆——”吃掉了马拉尼亚环礁，小希拉尼最喜欢的地方，上面还有我们一起搭起的石子塔……
Fatutu: Remember when the waves came and took away Malaga? Heilani cried for days over that little pebble castle.

图图石子：接着是以提提，我们举办独木舟环岛比赛的地方。那儿的水道最平，水流也最缓……可不知从哪儿来的黑黢黢的油污把整座岛都给染成了黑色。
Fatutu: And then that strange oil polluted the water all around Itiiti—the only place where the water's calm enough to hold the Paopao race. We haven't held a race since.

图图石子：再后来是米缇、维布那……
Fatutu: Then Miti and Vaipuna ...

图图石子：可我们还是坚持过来了，大家也生活得更加亲近紧密。我们还有脚下的麦黎，不是吗？
Fatutu: But we've made it through, because that's what we do in the face of difficulties, right? We stick together. Besides, we're doing just fine on Meli.

卡穆塔：万一连麦黎也遇上了那样大的风浪呢？
Kamuta: But what if we lose Meli to the waves as well?

图图石子：……
Fatutu: ...

卡穆塔：如果真到了那个时候……图图石子，我希望你能带领大家暂时离开这里，你能照顾好大家的，对吧？
Kamuta: If it comes to that, Tutu, I need you to take everyone and leave—find somewhere to stay for a while. Can I ask that of you?

图图石子的眉头皱成了一条蜿蜒的河。
Fatutu's brow furrows.

图图石子：我不明白，哥哥。你一直在说一些很奇怪的话……难道你打算偷偷离开我们吗？
Fatutu: You've been acting strange, brother. Are you thinking of sneaking off and leaving us?

卡穆塔：我哪儿也不打算去。
Kamuta: I'm not going anywhere. I promise.

我向你保证，图图石子。

图图石子：所有人都是这样想的，哥哥。
Fatutu: Neither are the rest of us, brother.

卡穆塔：不，你们必须得做好准备——最好从现在就开始！
Kamuta: No! You must get ready. Start preparing now!

哥哥的反常令图图石子做出一个大胆的猜想。
Kamuta's unusual behavior leads Fatutu to make a bold guess.

图图石子：自从上一次的船商贸易节之后，你就总是心神不宁的，你以前可没有这么多在沙滩上散步、眺望海面的时候……
Fatutu: Something's been bothering you since last trade season. You've been spending a lot of time on the beach, looking out to the sea.

图图石子：难道你被外头的女巫下了可怕的巫术吗？
Fatutu: Did a witch put a spell on you?

图图石子：噢！你一定忘了在脖子上挂上几颗摩鲁卡，也没有把针织骨草和红藻流流叶揣在口袋里。
Fatutu: You better wear some molukka around your neck and carry knitbones and dulse leaves.

卡穆塔：不，不是那些船商，是格蕾丝女士。
Kamuta: No, no, there's no witch. It's just something Ms. Grace told me. It's been bugging me.

图图石子：那位……自称船长的女士？
Fatutu: Ms. Grace? That outsider who calls herself a captain?

船商节在努库泰澳的歌声中缓缓落幕。
With the singing of the Nukutai, the trade festival slowly comes to an end.

沙滩上，客人们与努库泰澳的主人们三三两两地告别，享受着难得的闲暇时光。
On the beach, the Nukutai bid farewell to their guests in twos and threes, enjoying this rare moment of leisure.

淑女格蕾丝：我并没有危言耸听，卡穆塔先生。
Ms. Grace: I don't mean to alarm you, Mr. Kamuta.

淑女格蕾丝：三个月后，麦黎将在一场海啸后彻底沉没。
Ms. Grace: But three months from now, Meli will be devoured by a tsunami.

黑衣女士款款而立，像是在谈论一件无足轻重的小事。
She stands nonchalantly, as if discussing something insignificant.

卡穆塔：格蕾丝女士，请不要再胡说八道了！
Kamuta: Ms. Grace, don't say such nonsense!

卡穆塔：我们欢迎到努库泰澳来的客人，但我们绝不接受任何外乡人对我们的无端恐吓。
Kamuta: You're welcome as a guest, but that doesn't give you the right to spread fear among my people.

淑女格蕾丝：如果我告诉您，关于马拉尼亚环礁与维布那的沉没……并非只是一场天灾呢？
Ms. Grace: What if I told you that the sinking of Malaga and Vaipuna wasn't entirely caused by the tsunami, but there were other factors at play?

卡穆塔：——！
Kamuta: ...!

淑女格蕾丝：海啸淹没了那儿。
Ms. Grace: It is true that the tsunami sent them into the sea. But long before it struck, foreign military forces had been eyeing the islands for their strategic value.

可在洪水退去之前，外界的军队便发现了这片颇有价值的无人区。

卡穆塔：那些轰隆的震响，难道它们不是普通的雷声——？！
Kamuta: Those rumbling sounds ... They weren't thunder?!

淑女格蕾丝：那是人类的鱼雷。
Ms. Grace: They were torpedoes launched by humans.

客人晃了晃手中一份颇有厚度的文件。
She presents a thick document in her hand.

淑女格蕾丝：真不巧，我恰好听说了关于它们的消息。
Ms. Grace: And I have some unfortunate news regarding them.

卡穆塔抢过了那份同样冷冰冰的白皮书。
Kamuta grabs the cold, impersonal stack of white paper.

卡穆塔：“我方宣布对该区域戒严，拟知会相关部门避开涉及相关海域的规划。”
Kamuta: "The area is now under martial law. Any development plans for the region should be revised accordingly."

卡穆塔：这上面的坐标……是我们的努库泰澳……
Kamuta: These coordinates ... they cover Nukutaeao.

淑女格蕾丝：军方对你们的家园进行了勘探，他们笃定自己找到了一片可供军事实验的无人区。
Ms. Grace: After a brief investigation, they concluded that your home is an unoccupied area suitable for their weapon testing.

淑女格蕾丝：不久之后，他们便会公开这份了不起的政绩。
Ms. Grace: It won't be long before they publish a report on this new test site and receive their rewards for discovering it.

卡穆塔：这是因为岛上的“无影无踪雾”……先辈们为了不被外界打扰，特意凝出了这片遮庇生灵的雾气。
Kamuta: The Veil of Nothingness was cast by our ancestors to protect us from the outside world.

卡穆塔：可现在它们却……
Kamuta: I never thought it would put us at risk.

卡穆塔：我得尽快和族人们商量这件事，或许我们早就应该消除这片“无影无踪雾”了。但这很可能引来更多的注意……
Kamuta: As Chief, I must bring this to the attention of my people. Perhaps it's time we removed the mist. But without it, we'll draw all kinds of attention.

卡穆塔捏紧了这份报告。
Kamuta clenches the report tightly in his fist.

卡穆塔：格蕾丝女士，您能将这份资料交给我吗？我需要用它来说服我的族人们。
Kamuta: Ms. Grace, may I borrow this document? My people need to see this.

淑女格蕾丝：当然，但您得抓紧时间了。
Ms. Grace: Be my guest. But you'd better persuade them quickly.

卡穆塔：我不明白您的意思。
Kamuta: Why's that?

淑女格蕾丝：扩大鱼雷试验场的计划早已被列入了军方的日程。
Ms. Grace: As far as I know, they're looking to expand the test site. It's on their agenda now.

卡穆塔：我们可以派出人员与他们谈判。
Kamuta: Right. We'll have to set up a meeting with them to negotiate.

淑女格蕾丝：当然，我衷心地希望您能说服那些杀气腾腾的老爷们，也祝愿你们能够顺利渡过接下来的海啸。
Ms. Grace: Certainly. I wish you the best of luck persuading those warmongers, and for your safety in the coming tsunami.

漫不经心的脚步中，一条条惊世骇俗的发言砸向卡穆塔的脑袋。
Every nonchalant word that leaves her mouth strikes Kamuta with the shocking gravity of the situation.

卡穆塔：我理解您的说法，可……
Kamuta: With all due respect, Ms. Grace ...

卡穆塔：哪怕是以海为生的努库泰澳人，也不敢断言几个月后的海上风浪。格蕾丝小姐，您究竟是如何做出如此大胆的预言？
Kamuta: Not even the Nukutai can predict the movements of the ocean that far in advance. On what basis are you making this forecast?

淑女格蕾丝：这并不是预言，卡穆塔先生……
Ms. Grace: It's not a forecast, Mr. Kamuta.

淑女格蕾丝：这是一次对“过去”的回望。
Ms. Grace: Call it the wisdom of hindsight.

淑女格蕾丝：或者说，您听说过“暴雨”吗？
Ms. Grace: Or perhaps, I should put it more clearly. Have you heard of the "Storm"?

图图石子：哥哥！哥哥！……卡穆塔！
Fatutu: Kamuta! Kamuta! Brother!

卡穆塔：——！
Kamuta: ...!

图图石子：雨越来越大了！别发愣了，我们得赶紧去躲雨！
Fatutu: The rain's getting heavier! We must go inside!

雨水模糊了卡穆塔的视线。
Rain blurs Kamuta's vision.

他眺望远方，倾洒着白沫的海浪呼啸着袭向海岸，似乎连海平面也升了起来。
He stares into the distance, his eyes widening as the frothing waves roar toward the coast. The sea level is rising.

卡穆塔：海啸……真的来了……
Kamuta: It's the tsunami. It's happening.

翻涌而上的海浪将哥哥的低语声拍得粉碎，与土壤一同淹没在愈发上涨的水平线中。
Like the soil beneath the ever-rising waterline, Kamuta's murmured words are quickly buried.

几乎要将整片环礁吞没。
The sea has almost swallowed the whole atoll.

托阿：这是怎么了，图图石子……卡穆塔？
Toa: What's going on, Tutu? Kamuta?

焦急的身影匆匆跑到了这里。
A worried figure hurries over.

图图石子：还不知道，但咱们得先尽力救下这些箱子。
Fatutu: No time for questions, Toa! We must bring these baskets to safety!

图图石子将沙滩上的草编箱子推上了一处高坡。四散的浆果和捆扎的麻布挤在一起，绷紧的草绳把她的手指勒得通红。
Fatutu is already pushing as many woven baskets filled with berries and bundled material as she can up to higher ground. Her hands are a sore red, her face stamped with desperate determination.

托阿：噢，这些是咱们的物资！
Toa: Ah, there's food and clothes in there!

塞洛尼：图图石子，我来帮你——
Selone: Here, I'll give you a hand!

匆匆赶来的高大身影抢过了孩子们手中的箱子，将它们扔到一边。
A tall figure rushes over, grabbing the baskets from the children's hands and tossing them aside.

塞洛尼：卡穆塔，你为什么要扔下它们……？！
Selone: Chief, what are you doing?!

卡穆塔：除了木板，什么都别管了，我们得马上修好那艘船！
Kamuta: Leave them! There's no time! We must get to the ship! Now!

图图石子：等水退了，我们还得想办法活下去呢！
Fatutu: Our people still have to live after the flood's over!

图图石子：但浆果可不会马上从树上掉下来，纱线和针脚也不会乖乖地抱在一起……
Fatutu: If we don't bring something, what are we going to eat or wear? These things won't fall into our laps, you know.

卡穆塔：情况不一样了，图图石子。现在最要紧的是——
Kamuta: Listen! It's different this time. You—

卡穆塔还想再说些什么，林间却突然蹿出了几团黑影。
Before Kamuta can finish speaking, a few dark shadows dart out from the forest.

？？？：吼呜——吼——
???: *roar*

卡穆塔：图图石子，小心！
Kamuta: Tutu! Watch out!

图图石子：——！
Fatutu: ...!

锋利的爪子与卡穆塔的背脊擦身而过。
A row of sharp claws grazes Kamuta's back.

托阿：该死，这儿怎么出现了这么多风暴猫？！
Toa: What are all these Splintercats doing here?!

？？？：&！*/% ……
???: &!*/% ...

塞洛尼：源源不断蹿出的魔精几乎令所有人都慌了神。
Selone: The near-endless surge of critters starts to create an even greater panic.

塞洛尼：不只是风暴猫，还有提克蜗和……长着“鬼脸”的螃蟹？
Selone: These aren't just Splintercats! Are those Sarmatian Sea Snails? And crabs with ghost faces?!

托阿：……以前再大的暴风雨都见不着它们，怎么这次全跑出来了！
Toa: I've never seen them all come out together before. What kind of storm is this?!

疑惑与担忧萦绕在惊雷映照下的每一张脸。
In the flashes of lightning, doubt and worry flicker across the Nukutai's faces.

卡穆塔：它们正处于海啸的应激状态——喊上族人们，我们得先驱逐它们！
Kamuta: They can sense the coming tsunami! Come, we need more hands to drive them off!

托阿：明白——！
Toa: Understood!

逃窜的魔精们如同汹涌的潮水，冲散了互相倚靠的努库泰澳人。
The fleeing critters surge like the tide, scattering the Nukutai.

不少人的身上都挂了彩。
Many are left wounded.

卡穆塔：走，快走——！
Kamuta: Go! All of you! Now!

卡穆塔：所有人——都到“丰收满满号”去！
Kamuta: Everyone, get to the Quick Spear!

“鬼脸螃蟹”：&@#/(#——！
Ghost-Face Crab: &@#/(#—!

图图石子：怎么会、这一次的海啸……看上去比任何一次都更严重！
Fatutu: This tsunami ... It's the worst I've ever seen.

图图石子：难道麦黎真的会被淹没吗？
Fatutu: Is it true? Is this the end of Meli?

卡穆塔：小心，图图石子——！别傻站在那儿！
Kamuta: Tutu! Don't just stand there! Get over here!

阴影中，一只布满棘刺的螯足朝着图图石子的位置挥舞着。
From the shadows, a spiny claw swipes at Fatutu.

？？？：*Slæstu í djúpan dvala.
???: *Slæstu í djúpan dvala.

淑女格蕾丝：漆黑如墨的术法轨迹一闪而逝。
Ms. Grace: An inky-black incantation flashes past her.

淑女格蕾丝：一张熟悉的面庞又一次出现在礁石的最高处。
Ms. Grace: A familiar face appears at the highest point of the reef.

图图石子：——！
Fatutu: ...!

卡穆塔：格蕾丝女士……
Kamuta: Ms. Grace!

格蕾丝环顾四周，朝着慌乱的众人露出一个亲切的笑容。
Grace surveys the scene, a gentle smile on her face.

淑女格蕾丝：看来我并没有来迟。
Ms. Grace: Seems I'm right on time.

图图石子：你就是……格蕾丝。
Fatutu: You're Ms. Grace.

淑女格蕾丝：你该更当心些的，好姑娘。
Ms. Grace: You should be more careful out here, dear.

淑女格蕾丝：我亲爱的努库泰澳朋友们，你们准备好启航了么？
Ms. Grace: People of Nukutaeao, are you ready to set sail?

苍白的影子施施然落在了图图石子的身边。
The pale shadow gracefully lands beside Fatutu.

图图石子：启航……？
Fatutu: Set sail?

图图石子：不，不，你误会了，女士。
Fatutu: No, no, you've got this all wrong, outsider!

图图石子：我们哪儿也不去，努库泰澳人永远不会离开自己的家园。
Fatutu: We are not going anywhere. We Nukutai will not abandon our home.

胸前的一串串贝壳随着图图石子的胸膛一同执拗地起伏着。
The string of shells around Fatutu's neck heaves along with the defiant breaths in her chest.

卡穆塔：冷静点，图图石子。也许格蕾丝女士能有更合适的办法呢……
Kamuta: Tutu, wait. Maybe Ms. Grace knows a better way.

图图石子坚决地挣脱开卡穆塔的手。
She pulls away from Kamuta's hand.

淑女格蕾丝：……
Ms. Grace: ...

淑女格蕾丝：可是，你们的家园很快就会被彻底淹没呀。
Ms. Grace: Refuse all you like, Miss, but your homeland will be completely submerged before long.

轻飘飘的话语随意地摆弄着眼前几乎坚不可摧的顽石。
Her words are light, almost careless, as they toy with this unmoving rock before her.

图图石子：努库泰澳人感谢您的援助。
Fatutu: We appreciate your help, Ms. Grace, and we'll make sure to return the favor as best we can.

在海啸过去后，我们会以最高的礼节向您表示最诚挚的谢意。

图图石子：但请原谅，我们无法接受您这样夸大其词的说法。
Fatutu: But we don't find your view on the situation all that convincing.

淑女格蕾丝：……是吗？
Ms. Grace: You don't, do you?

那枚被术法禁锢的偷袭者又一次被递到了图图石子的面前。
The critter, now bound by Grace's incantation, is pulled before Fatutu.

淑女格蕾丝：好好欣赏吧，这可是多么难得一见的珍宝啊。
Ms. Grace: Take a look at this little creature—one of nature's many remarkable creations.

“鬼脸螃蟹”：……
Ghost-Face Crab: ...

淑女格蕾丝：它有一个有趣的名字，月相招潮蟹。
Ms. Grace: It has a fitting name too: the Moon-Eyed Fiddler.

淑女格蕾丝：它们藏在水中，随着潮水的周期与月相藏匿行迹，躲在谁也找不到的地方。
Ms. Grace: They hide themselves in the water, covering their traces with the ebb and flow of the tide.

淑女格蕾丝：直到潮水袭来，它们才不得不途经海岸，迁徙到更安全的水域。
Ms. Grace: They only come ashore when the tide is high, and from there, they migrate to quieter waters.

淑女格蕾丝：无数占卜者和神秘商人们趋之若鹜，视它们为行走的海中黄金。
Ms. Grace: To diviners and arcane dealers, they are the living gold of the ocean.

淑女格蕾丝：可对于那些月相招潮蟹出没地的人们而言，就没那么幸运了……
Ms. Grace: But to the people who live near their regular habitats, they are an ill omen.

淑女格蕾丝：无尽的潮水、海浪，甚至是一场毁灭的洪灾。
Ms. Grace: Wherever they appear, floods are sure to follow.

格蕾丝不着痕迹地朝图图石子靠了靠。
Grace takes a few subtle steps toward Fatutu.

淑女格蕾丝：这只是个开始。
Ms. Grace: This tsunami is only the beginning.

淑女格蕾丝：动物们在应对危机上远比我们清醒，它们会毫不犹豫地抛弃自己的居所……哪怕在其中生活了数十年。
Ms. Grace: Animals migrate and leave their homes behind when conditions become unfavorable. You should do the same.

淑女格蕾丝：你该多为同伴们着想的。
Ms. Grace: Look around you. Think about your people.

魔精的潮水似乎暂时地消退了，努库泰澳人身上的伤痕却仍在汩汩冒血。
The tide of critters seems to have subsided, but the Nukutai still bleed.

四周粗重的叹息与吸气声无比清晰地落入图图石子的耳中。
Fatutu can clearly hear their labored sighs and gasps.

卡穆塔：妹妹，你没有做错任何事……
Kamuta: Tutu, it's okay. We know you have your reasons.

图图石子站在原地，任海水裹起的砂砾冲刷微微颤抖的脚踝。
Fatutu stands frozen, the sand and gravel carried by the seawater washing over her trembling feet.

泪水盈满眼眶，天空斑驳的暴雨灰似乎与地上流淌的血红凝成了一团。
Tears well up in her eyes as the mottled gray of the sky above seems to merge with the crimson ground below.

图图石子：我们一定要离开这儿么？
Fatutu: Do we really have to leave?

格蕾丝的手轻柔地整理图图石子的衣襟，拭去了图图石子脸上的雨珠。
Grace gently adjusts Fatutu's collar, wiping the rain from her face.

淑女格蕾丝：外面的事并不像你想的那样轻松，当然也并没有那样可怕。
Ms. Grace: The outside world is indeed full of dangers, but there is less to fear than you think.

淑女格蕾丝：无论如何，我会帮你的。
Ms. Grace: I'll help you through it.

海潮越发汹涌，拍打着礁石、沙滩，木质的房梁与基座摇摇欲坠。
The tide grows more turbulent, crashing against rocks and shaking the foundations of the Nukutai's homes.

而后是一阵阵轰响，椰子树倒塌，土坡接连不断地塌陷，仿佛山呼海啸。
There's a series of crashes as coconut trees fall, and earth crumbles and falls into the sea.

逐渐黑屏+船只鸣笛的声音，即将出发

淑女格蕾丝：我们的船来了。
Ms. Grace: There it is. Our ship.

长黑屏+鸣笛声由远及近，转接到无线电小姐的广播声
Last Evenings on Earth

《地球上最后的夜晚》

？？？：♪……♫……！
???: ♪ ... ♫ ...!

？？？：近日，军方宣布将在东部某无人海域新建一座现代化鱼雷试验场，以提升海军武器装备的研发和测试能力。
???: Today's headlines: A new naval testing site has been established in an unoccupied area of the Eastern Pacific Ocean to facilitate future armament research and development.

？？？：受债务危机影响，拉丁美洲爆发严重经济危机。经济停滞、通货膨胀、失业问题接踵而至。据统计，部分国家与地区贫困率在近十年间大幅上升，创历史最高纪录。
???: South America is facing a significant economic crisis marked by stagnation, inflation, and rising unemployment. The poverty rate in several regions has reached new highs in the last decade.

？？？：昨日，海洋生物保护协会呼吁大家正视关于“原油油船在某群岛发生泄露事故”的问题。他们声称，尽管过去了数月，环保局仍未对事故原因展开全面调查。
???: The Ocean Conservation Association is calling for greater attention to be paid to the oil spill near the archipelagos, claiming that the relevant organizations have yet to launch a full investigation into the cause of the incident.

？？？：“自由海风号”游轮即将抵达悉尼港；天文科普专家表示，本月极有可能发生日食现象，最佳观测地为——
???: The "Free Breeze" cruise ship is set to arrive in Sydney Harbor later today. Astrophysicists forecast a solar eclipse this month.

“啪嗒——”
A hand precisely presses the little green button.

一只手准确地按在了精巧的绿色按钮上。
And a painful wail follows.

紧接着是更清晰的沉痛哀嚎声。

星锑：无线电小姐——！
Regulus: Ah, Ms. Radio!!

星锑：这可是宝贵的休假时间！你怎么能忘记关闭那可恶的闹钟——！
Regulus: How could you do this to me—today of all days? Your bloody alarm ruined my precious holiday lie-in!

无线电小姐：很抱歉，但这并不是闹钟，而是例行播报的今日资讯。
Ms. Radio: My apologies, Ms. Regulus. But it wasn't an alarm. It was the daily news broadcast.

被拍到一边的无线电小姐信号似乎更好了。
The swatted-aside Ms. Radio seems to have a clear signal.

无线电小姐：如果您对新闻不感兴趣的话，我还可以为您提供今日美文考评、音乐鉴赏、澳大利亚风味美食等相关内容。
Ms. Radio: If the morning news isn't quite to your taste, I can offer a variety of alternatives, including programs on literature and music critique, Australian food, and so on.

星锑：你……！
Regulus: Ugh. No!

船长悲愤的呼喊远远地传了出去。
Her cry echoes through the room.

爱兹拉：抱歉，我似乎不该在这时候出现。
Ezra: Sorry, it seems I've caught you at a bad time.

从门外探头进来的爱兹拉缩了缩脑袋。
Ezra, having just peeked his head through the door, immediately ducks back.

一场单方面的暴行似乎无可辩驳。
A one-sided conflict seems inevitable.

爱兹拉：……但我必须提醒您，星锑小姐，拉普拉斯科算中心鼓励对机器的全方位研究，但不鼓励暴力拆解等行为。
Ezra: Um. But please be careful, Ms. Regulus. I know the LSCC encourages us to examine machines like Ms. Radio, but I don't think a violent disassembly would go down so well.

负隅顽抗的海盗终于站起身来。
Regulus gets to her feet.

星锑：这完全是污蔑，我才是受害者！我要上诉——！
Regulus: Violence? If there's any sort of violence in this room, I'm the one receiving it! Where's my justice?

爱兹拉：好的，但您的申请很可能要被搁置一段时间。目前拉普拉斯澳大利亚分部正在进行分组改制的试验。
Ezra: Well, I'm afraid justice might be slow to come. The Australian branch is going through restructuring at the moment. Things will be put on hold for a while.

爱兹拉：您被纳入了一个新的组别，“暴雨”专项研究小组。
Ezra: In the meantime, you've been assigned to a new team—the "Storm" Research Group.

星锑：我……我吗？
Regulus: What? Me?

爱兹拉：当然，“暴雨”专项研究小组的负责人乌尔里希先生亲自将您列入了名单，它很期待与您的首次会面。
Ezra: Yes. Mr. Ulrich's leading it. He made a special request for you to be on the team. He's looking forward to meeting you in person.

星锑：这也太草率了吧——它完全没有征询过我的任何意见啊！
Regulus: What, just like that? Didn't anyone care to ask me what I wanted to do?!

摇滚海盗的疑惑并未持续太久，她猛然想起了什么。
Regulus's puzzled expression soon gives way to a sudden realization.

星锑：等等，你为什么会在今天告诉我这个消息——？！
Regulus: Wait. Why are you telling me this now?

爱兹拉：呃……“暴雨”专项研究小组的成员名单已经在拉普拉斯内部论坛的首页公示一周了，其中写明了所有相关人员的突出贡献。
Ezra: Um. The list of group members and the reasons for their selection have been up on Laplace's website for a week now.

星锑：……
Regulus: ...

爱兹拉：而且，今天是“暴雨”专项研究小组正式成立的日子。作为拉普拉斯的正式员工，尤其是“暴雨”专项研究小组的重要成员……您应该到场观礼。
Ezra: And today is its official founding day. You should be there, as a Laplace staff member and an important part of the new team.

星锑：…………？
Regulus: ...?

星锑：不——绝不可能！
Regulus: Hold on a minute! As far as I'm concerned, I'm still on Team Timekeeper!

按照划分，我现在应该归属司辰小队！

星锑：更更更更重要的是，现在仍是我的休假时间！
Regulus: And more importantly, I'm still on my time off!

维尔汀：很高兴你这么有时间观念，星锑。
Vertin: Good to see that you actually paid attention in our last group meeting, Regulus.

箱子的主人，星锑的救星，伟大的司辰小姐及时地降临在门口。
The owner of the suitcase, Regulus's savior, the great Timekeeper, arrives at the door.

星锑：没错，维尔汀——！
Regulus: Vertin! Thank God you're here!

星锑：快，告诉所有人，我们的假期还远远没有结束！
Regulus: Go on! Tell them I'm still on holiday!

为权利奋战的海盗期待着一艘救生艇。
The fast-drowning pirate is hoping for a life preserver.

维尔汀：很遗憾，星锑。今天是短期休假的最后一天。
Vertin: Sorry to break it to you like this, Regulus, but today's our last day off.

星锑：嗯——？！
Regulus: You can't be serious!

维尔汀：当然，我们也接到了拉普拉斯的邀请，乌尔里希组长表现得相当热切。
Vertin: Of course, I am. Also, Mr. Ulrich has invited us to attend the ceremony in Laplace.

维尔汀：需要为你留出一些整理着装的时间吗？
Vertin: Shall I give you a moment to get ready?

星锑：不————！
Regulus: Noooooo!

画面逐渐黑屏

LEE-02 “自由海风” / "Free Breeze"

澳大利亚街道

APPLe：星锑船长，我们似乎偏离了去往拉普拉斯的航向。
APPLe: Captain, we seem to have deviated from our route to Laplace.

前往科算中心的路途总是遍布坎坷。
The road to the LSCC is ever fraught with obstacles.

星锑：……
Regulus: ...

星锑：伟大的海盗依靠的从来都不是罗盘，而是一颗勇往直前的心！
Regulus: A great pirate, Mr. APPLe, doesn't simply rely on her compass. She must listen to her heart, too!

APPLe：原来如此，我还以为你借机支开维尔汀小姐，只是为了行使度过最后一天假期的权利。
APPLe: Ah. This APPLe thought you were trying to slip away to make the most of your final day off.

星锑：咳咳。这当然也很重要！
Regulus: Ahem. Well, that too.

如同特洛伊战争后凯旋的奥德修斯，船长身手矫健地闯入眼前的一个个漩涡。
Like Odysseus returning victorious from the Trojan War, Regulus nimbly dives into one vortex after another.

街头商人：来自巴西的苏卡拉特兽触须，炼制“凉飕飕药剂”的绝佳材料！
Street Vendor: Come get your Succarath whiskers all the way from Brazil, perfect for brewing a Chillwind Elixir! Only 185 Sharpodonties!

——仅售185颗利齿子儿！

街头商人：这位小姐，你不打算购买一点儿吗？里约热内卢的兄弟姐妹们会永远铭记着您的慷慨～
Street Vendor: See anything you like? You won't find a better price anywhere!

星锑：哇哦——！
Regulus: Whoa, this is a good price! Do you have more of this stuff? Show me everything you've got!

这样的好东西你还藏着多少？统统拿出来——

APPLe：船长……我必须提醒你，苏芙比小姐并未参与此次的澳洲之行。
APPLe: Captain, might I remind you that Ms. Sotheby is not traveling with us at this time?

星锑：噢，好吧～
Regulus: Oh, yeah. You're right.

眼前的诱惑似乎源源不断。
The temptations before them seem to be endless.

街头艺术家：♪——♫——
Street Artist: ♪—♫—

颜料与歌声一同飞舞，差点溅到了船长的墨镜上。
A street artist sings as paint flies through the air, almost splashing onto Regulus's sunglasses.

星锑：嘿、嘿嘿！老兄，颜料可不是这么使的，我非常建议你尝试波普艺术，再邋遢的艺术家碰上它也能摇身一变，吸引街上所有人的注意～
Regulus: Alright, mate? Whoa, love the colors! How about bringing in some pop art? Trust me, it'll take it to a whole new level.

星锑：说真的，你该找个机会到伦敦去，在那儿你能学到不少街头宣传的技巧。
Regulus: You should come visit London sometime! We've got some seriously groovy art on the streets.

街头艺术家：波普……那不是几十年前的老古董吗？
Street Artist: Pop art? That's a bit dated, don't you think?

星锑：什么——？！
Regulus: I beg your pardon?!

在船长践行她的摇滚精神前，不远处传来的欢呼声及时阻止了这场争端。
Just as Regulus rolls up her sleeves, ready for a tussle, a not-too-distant cheer grabs her attention.

这里是喇叭喊免费上传的音效

星锑：——！
Regulus: ...!

星锑：我听到了几个重要的字眼，APPLe先生，我们必须尽快赶往那儿。
Regulus: Did you hear that? We'd better go over there and check it out, Mr. APPLe.

APPLe：难道是……重塑之手？
APPLe: What is it? Could it be Manus Vindictae?

APPLe：维尔汀小姐曾委托过我们，希望大家在澳大利亚出游时，留意可能出现的重塑门徒……
APPLe: Ms. Vertin did caution us against the Manus followers we might encounter in Australia.

星锑：不——比那更加重要！
Regulus: No, it's something much more important than that!

宣传船员：女士们，先生们——！
Cruise Ticket Seller: Ladies and gentlemen! Welcome to the greatest sailaway party in all Australia!

欢迎来到全澳大利亚最最最盛大的游轮启航派对！

宣传船员：您期待着一段独一无二的旅程吗？您渴望投入一个温暖湿润的怀抱吗？您也热爱音乐吗？那么此刻，正是最好的时机——
Cruise Ticket Seller: For those of you who haven't signed up for the trip, think again! This is the ultimate sailing experience—relaxation, food, drink, and music! Don't miss out!

宣传船员：“自由海风号”即将启航！
Cruise Ticket Seller: The "Free Breeze" is about to set sail!

宣传船员：澳元、利齿子儿、神秘学素材，或是一切具有价值的珍藏，我们慷慨的船长允诺，“自由海风号”的门票绝不受限～
Cruise Ticket Seller: No need to worry about currency exchange! Whether it's Australian dollars, Sharpodonties, arcane materials, or a rare collectible item—all are welcome in exchange for a ticket of equal value!

宣传船员：只需要一点儿小小的投资，您便能近距离欣赏自由乐器大师芭卡洛儿小姐与她的神奇乐器“啪唧匣子”的个人秀！
Cruise Ticket Seller: A small price to pay for an unforgettable journey with the talented multi-instrumentalist Barcarola and her fantastic Crackling Box!

此起彼伏的欢呼声愈发高涨。
The cheers grow louder and louder.

宣传船员：当然，我们也为囊中羞涩的朋友提供了一个宝贵的机会——
Cruise Ticket Seller: We've also prepared a little gift for our most enthusiastic guest:

宣传船员：我们最为热情的朋友，将有机会得到一张免费登上游轮的船票！
Cruise Ticket Seller: A free cruise ticket!

星锑：——！
Regulus: ...!

星锑：没错！我要找的就是这个！
Regulus: That's what I'm talking about!

APPLe：……果然如此。
APPLe: *sigh* This APPLe should have known better.

宣传船员：尽情欢呼吧，朋友们！为芭卡洛儿小姐的演出，为那天籁般的乐声！与我们一同环游世界——！
Cruise Ticket Seller: Ladies and gentlemen, the party starts now! Put your hands together for the enchanting Ms. Barcarola and her captivating melodies!

星锑：喔～～～
Regulus: Woo-hoo!

溢美之辞从宣传员的口中井喷而出，舞台中央的明星悄悄侧过脸去。
Compliments gush from the ticket seller's mouth as the star at the center of the stage subtly turns her face away.

芭卡洛儿侧头低语。

芭卡洛儿：这样的宣传词也太夸张了……汉米西先生……
Barcarola: You're much too kind, Mr. Hamish, saying all these wonderful things about me, but I'm only a cruise musician.

芭卡洛儿：我很乐意为“自由海风号”尽一份力，但它的成功属于每一位船员，过、过高的评价不……
Barcarola: It's thanks to the collective efforts of the whole crew that the "Free Breeze" has been so successful. I just feel privileged to be a part of it.

宣传船员：“过高的评价不利于培养出一位伟大的音乐大师”，我完全理解，芭卡洛儿小姐——
Cruise Ticket Seller: I know you want to stay humble, Ms. Barcarola, but there's no reason to be so modest!

宣传船员：可事实上，我们的客人大多都是冲着您和您的独门乐器来的，我相信，您的名气一定会为“自由海风号”招徕更多的客人～
Cruise Ticket Seller: Many of our guests come aboard just to hear you play, and I'm sure there will only be more in the future! So, what's the harm with hyping the crowd up with a little round of applause?

芭卡洛儿：好吧……这不是为了我自己，而是为了我们的“自由海风号”。
Barcarola: Well, if it's for the ship, I suppose I can handle a little publicity.

宣传船员：当然，芭卡洛儿小姐～
Cruise Ticket Seller: Of course you can! And you deserve it, too! By the way, do you know the guest over there? She's very, uh, enthusiastic.

另外……您认识那位过于热情的客人么？

芭卡洛儿：嗯？
Barcarola: Hm?

她朝着船员手指的方向望去，那儿有派对中格外热情的一角。
She follows the direction he's pointing to find a particularly lively duo among the crowd.

一位红白相间的女士与一颗飘浮的苹果。
A girl dressed in red and blue, and a floating apple.

宣传船员：在那位女士的影响下，我们已经卖出去几十张船票了……以前从来没卖得这么快过！
Cruise Ticket Seller: She's been drumming up the crowd—sold us a load more tickets! We've never sold out so quickly!

星锑：朋友们！你们应该都明白这个毫无争议的事实——
Regulus: Alright everyone, listen up! I've got some exciting news to share!

星锑：海风，轮船，音乐——还有什么比这更棒的组合呢？！
Regulus: This piece of paper in my hand could be your ticket to an incredible seafaring adventure! Just think about the cool breeze, the spruced-up cruise ship, and the awesome music!

星锑：每个人一生中都至少应该参与一场这样的音乐派对，否则我们的人生将毫无意义！
Regulus: What more could you ask for? This is a once-in-a-lifetime chance for a trip you'll never forget!

星锑：燥起来，朋友们！将你们手中的硬币抛向天空，让它们落入我面前的口袋——
Regulus: So, let's get buzzing! Throw your hands in the air and your coins out of your pockets, and let your dreams come to life!

星锑：记住——那最清脆的咔嗒声将是你们与音乐的灵魂共鸣——！！
Regulus: Let's hear those coins jingle and feel your spirits soar!

众人：喔——！
Crowd: Woo-hoo!

派对上的欢呼声一浪高过一浪。
The cheering grows louder and louder.

芭卡洛儿：澳大利亚的客人们，都像她这么热情吗？
Barcarola: Is she a local? Australians are known for their sunny disposition.

宣传船员：没人知道，我的小姐。要不是船长对新船员的要求苛刻，我都打算举荐她加入我们的“自由海风号”了。
Cruise Ticket Seller: No one knows her, Miss. But, to be honest, I'd love to invite her to join the crew. If only the captain weren't so picky with the new recruits.

她朝着那个自由摇摆的身影赞许地点了点头，将怀中的啪唧匣子抱得更紧了。
She nods approvingly at the freely dancing figure and clutches her Crackling Box tighter to her chest.

芭卡洛儿：没错，世界上有太多的人需要像她这样具有音乐品味的朋友去感染……比如我们古板的新船长！
Barcarola: I know what you mean. Her enthusiasm is infectious. Maybe her energy would wake up our stuffy new captain!

芭卡洛儿：她为什么非得解雇“自由海风号”的老海员们，换成那些什么也不懂、只会制造噪音的怪家伙呢——！
Barcarola: I'll never understand why the captain fired the old crew and hired a load of people who don't seem to have any clue about music. All they do is make noise, and not the good kind either!

数道惊讶的目光落到了芭卡洛儿的身上。
Several startled gazes land on Barcarola.

宣传船员：嘘——芭卡洛儿女士，请别再说了。
Cruise Ticket Seller: Shh. We better keep it down, Miss. They'll hear us.

他踮起脚尖，朝着轮船的方向探头探脑，许久，才不自然地缩了缩脖子。
He turns, peeking in the direction of the ship before awkwardly retracting his neck.

圆滑的船员：伙计们，咱们没听到过任何关于新船长的意见，对吧？
Quick-Minded Crew Member: We didn't hear any dissenting opinions about our captain, now, did we?

忧心的船员：当、当然！
Concerned Crew Member: No, of course not!

船员们眼神飘忽，小声地咳嗽起来，好催促尴尬的时间尽快过去。
The crew members glance at each other awkwardly, coughing softly to urge the embarrassing moment to pass quickly.

逐渐黑屏
Guests come and go, and the melodies continue one after another.

客人们来来往往，不知疲倦的曲子一首接一首地流淌着。
Eventually, the sailaway party comes to an end.

启航派对终于抵达了尾声。

逐渐黑屏

APPLe：船长，我们是不是该去科算中心了？
APPLe: Captain, if I may, perhaps it's time we made our way to Laplace?

星锑：当然不是，大副！难道你不认为我们是那欢呼声最高、能赢回免费船票的幸运儿吗？
Regulus: Come on, Mr. APPLe! The crowd's going crazy for us! Can't you see how close we are to winning that free ticket?

APPLe：我赞同你的观点。
APPLe: I suppose you're right, Captain. But the crew seems to be packing up for the day.

……但那些船员们似乎已经在收拾东西了。

星锑：什么——？！！！
Regulus: THEY WHAT?!

“星锑号”舰船迅速拦截了即将离开的“自由海风号”。
Regulus quickly intercepts the cruise team before they can make their way back on the ship.

宣传船员：这位客人，派对已经结束。请谅解，芭卡洛儿小姐不再提供签名服务了。
Cruise Ticket Seller: Oh. Can I help you? I'm afraid Ms. Barcarola won't be signing any more albums today.

星锑：不！是我的免费船票——！
Regulus: What about my free ticket?

星锑：难道你们能在这儿找到比我更热情的观众吗？
Regulus: Wasn't I the most enthusiastic guest tonight?

宣传船员：……
Cruise Ticket Seller: ...

宣传船员：很抱歉，女士，幸运儿的噱头只是一种简单的宣传策略。
Cruise Ticket Seller: Sorry, Miss, but the "most enthusiastic guest" was really just a turn of phrase.

宣传船员：更何况，“自由海风号”的船票相当紧俏，无数朋友都翘首以待着这一趟旅行，至于免费的客舱……我想你可以等待我们返航时再来咨询。
Cruise Ticket Seller: We're nearly sold out tonight, and bookings are still coming in. I don't think we can spare a ticket for you. Come by next time, and we'll see what we can do.

星锑：你——
Regulus: You—

APPLe：船长，请冷静。他们确实不曾透露关于幸运儿选拔的任何细节。
APPLe: Easy, Captain! They never really explained what they meant by the "most enthusiastic guest." We're in no position to argue.

星锑抬头四顾，路人零零星星，早已没有一开始的热闹。
Regulus glances around. The once-bustling crowd has dwindled to just a few scattered passersby.

显然，这儿无人能为她主持公道。
Clearly, there is no one present to uphold justice for her.

星锑：你们这是赤裸裸的欺诈！我要去澳大利亚旅游局投诉你们！
Regulus: What a bloody scam! I'm filing a complaint! Just you wait and see!

宣传船员：我完全理解您的愤怒，但“自由海风号”将在几天后离港。我想，届时您的投诉进度应该还停留在表格投递环节。
Cruise Ticket Seller: I understand your frustration, Miss. The ship is sailing in just a couple of days. Even if you file a complaint right at this moment, we won't hear a thing from the Tourist Office before we set sail.

芭卡洛儿：……
Barcarola: ...

皱起眉头的少女将船员先生扯到一边。
Barcarola frowns and pulls the crewman aside.

芭卡洛儿：汉米西先生，我认为这一行为有损“自由海风号”的声誉。如果可以的话，我愿意将我的舱室转借给这位小姐。
Barcarola: I feel bad for her, Mr. Hamish. And just think how this will affect our reputation. With your consent, I'd like to offer this young lady a ticket and a stay in my cabin.

芭卡洛儿：至于费用，请从我的工资里扣除！
Barcarola: I'll be more than happy to pay for her!

宣传船员：您已经无数次这样做了，芭卡洛儿小姐。
Cruise Ticket Seller: You've done this so many times, Ms. Barcarola.

宣传船员：可这一次，我恐怕不能答应您了。您应该知道新船长对于船客们的审核有多严格，她绝不会允许毫无价值的客人登船的。
Cruise Ticket Seller: I'm afraid I have to turn you down. You know the new captain won't exactly be thrilled to have a freeloader on the ship.

芭卡洛儿：但……
Barcarola: But ...

小声的嘀咕让投诉无门的客人摸不着头脑。
Regulus barges between the two muttering colleagues.

星锑：嘿，伙计们——你们打算逃避问题到什么时候？！
Regulus: So, how much longer do you need to think up an excuse?

宣传船员：好吧，这位小姐，鉴于您在本次游轮宣传活动的突出表现，本“自由海风号”宣传员将破例给您准备一份精美的纪念品——
Cruise Ticket Seller: Ugh, alright. In view of your outstanding enthusiasm, we offer you a special gift for your help with our event.

宣传船员：——以感谢您对“自由海风号”宣传活动的有力支持。
Cruise Ticket Seller: There. Thanks for your support.

一沓颇有分量的“纪念品”被塞到了星锑的手里。
A stack of "souvenirs" is thrust into Regulus's arms. Dejected, she turns to leave.

握着马克笔的游轮明星奔上前来。
Barcarola pulls out a marker and cries out after her.

芭卡洛儿：等等——！
Barcarola: Wait!

特效-芭卡洛儿的签名+签名的音效

芭卡洛儿：很抱歉，小姐。希望您能接受我的私人补偿。
Barcarola: I'm so sorry about all this, Miss. I hope this will compensate for it.

星锑：……？
Regulus: Huh?

芭卡洛儿：愿我们未来能在“自由海风号”上再见。
Barcarola: I hope we can see each other again. Preferably soon.

星锑：哈？
Regulus: What?!

LEE-03 密码学入门 / Cryptography for Beginners

“啪——”

玻璃壁凑近又拉远，连带着其中的磁流体波浪似地涌动。
The glass tank leans forward, the ferrofluid rippling around inside it.

像是在窥视某种隐秘的信息。
The ferrofluid pauses at the information presented before it.

乌尔里希：星锑研究员，你的意思是，你在参加一艘豪华游轮的宣传派对后收到了这份传单。
Ulrich: So, they gave you this flyer at the sailaway party?

星锑：不，不止一份！是整整一沓——！
Regulus: Not just that one. There's a whole stack of them!

乌尔里希：好的，你的诉求我已经完全知悉了，星锑研究员。
Ulrich: Alright, Researcher Regulus. I think I've got everything down.

乌尔里希：我重新整理一遍：
Ulrich: Let's run through it again:

乌尔里希：星锑研究员在游轮宣传活动中遭受了极其不公的对待，因此产生了严重的心理负担。为走出心理阴影，以免对后续的工作造成不利的影响，特此申请——
Ulrich: Researcher Regulus suffered horrendous mistreatment during the pre-sail event of the "Free Breeze," which has had a significant psychological impact on her. In order to recover from this traumatic event, she formally requests—

星锑：提前预支接下来一年的工资，以及十五个自然日的特批假期，这一支出绝不会用于私人开支，仅作为短期游轮度假的散心活动！
Regulus: A one-year advance on her salary and 15 days of leave. The funds are to be used solely to book passage on a cruise trip, with the goal of replacing her negative experience from the pre-sail event with a more positive one!

收起浮窗

星锑：事实就是这样！
Regulus: I'm telling the truth! I ...

缸中的磁流体停滞了许久。
The ferrofluid remains still for a long moment.

乌尔里希：咳，星锑研究员，放下你手中的人工泪滴！我们暂时还用不上这个。
Ulrich: *sigh* I can see that bottle of artificial tears in your hand, Regulus. Please put it away. There's no need for dramatics.

星锑：组长——我就知道你一定会答应我的！
Regulus: Thank you, Ulrich. I knew there was a soft spot underneath all that metal!

乌尔里希：你误会了，我可从来都没打算答应你的任何申请。
Ulrich: Not so fast, Regulus. I never said I agreed to your request.

星锑：为什么？难道我不是科算中心的一份子吗！
Regulus: No? Why? I'm a researcher just like anybody else, aren't I? Shouldn't Laplace be looking out for my well-being?

乌尔里希：荒唐——！
Ulrich: Regulus!

乌尔里希：星锑研究员，入职十一个月以来，你从未参加过任何一次科算中心的考核评定，也没有在正式的项目中发表任何可视化的成果！
Ulrich: You've been working in Laplace for 11 months now, and you still haven't submitted your performance appraisal or published a single valid project result!

乌尔里希：换而言之，你还没有通过拉普拉斯科算中心的试用期考核，自然也无法享有拉普拉斯正式员工的福利。
Ulrich: In other words, you haven't completed your probationary period. So, you can't get the benefits of a full-time employee.

星锑：我……
Regulus: I ...

乌尔里希：更何况，你还错过了“暴雨”专项研究小组的登记注册手续！
Ulrich: And to top it all off, you didn't even show up to register at the first "Storm" Research Group meeting!

累累罪证不容置辩地挤在了这个不大的办公室里。
In the face of such overwhelming evidence, there is no room for rebuttal.

星锑：我、我反对……
Regulus: Well, I-I ...

抗议的声音显著地衰弱了下去。
Her protestation has grown noticeably weaker.

乌尔里希：反对无效。
Ulrich: Please, save me the excuses.

乌尔里希：……星锑研究员，你打算参加“暴雨”专项研究小组的补录考核吗？
Ulrich: There's still a chance for you to turn things around. You can take another assessment.

乌尔里希：你的成绩将作为正式评估结果录入拉普拉斯的数据库，它将直接影响到你的正式评级。
Ulrich: We'll use the results to make up for the assessments you've missed. It'll be crucial for your performance review and, consequently, your employee benefits.

星锑：……
Regulus: ...

星锑：…………

星锑：——我愿意！
Regulus: Bring it on!

乌尔里希：收起你的慷慨激昂，星锑研究员。
Ulrich: Easy there, Researcher Regulus.

乌尔里希：这只是一场简单的考核，不是去战场上送死。
Ulrich: You're taking a test, not going to war.

组长熟练地打开书柜，它似乎对事态的发展早有预料。
Ulrich turns and reaches into a bookshelf. Clearly, he has prepared for such an outcome.

翻出资料的声音

一沓沓比传单分量更重的资料堂而皇之地挡住了星锑的全部视线。
Document after document is pulled from the bookshelf and placed on the table, until Regulus can no longer see above them.

星锑：等等——这就是你说的简单的工作考核？！
Regulus: I thought you said it was just a test!

乌尔里希：噢，别紧张，这些只是你可能会用到的参考资料。
Ulrich: I did. And I meant it. This is just some light reading—for you to reference during the test.

乌尔里希：它才是你需要面对的考核。
Ulrich: And this. This is the test.

乌尔里希：这些并不是毫无规律的随机数，它们其中有着相当完整的推导逻辑与思考路径。
Ulrich: The numbers on this paper may appear random, but they're actually an encrypted code. Your task is to figure out what the message is.

乌尔里希：计算机在你的左侧，第二个柜子里还有几本你可能会用到的参考资料，其中涉及了一部分计算机的基本原理及使用教程。
Ulrich: You can use the computer to help you, and you might find some useful books and papers in the second drawer on your left. The instructions for the computer and a guide on how it works are all in there.

星锑：……
Regulus: ...

乌尔里希：考虑到解密本身的难度系数较高，本次考核不设时间限制。
Ulrich: Given its difficulty, there is no time limit for this test.

乌尔里希：祝你好运，星锑研究员。
Ulrich: Best of luck, Researcher Regulus.

收起浮窗+逐渐黑屏

组长推门而去，徒留房间里一位受刑的囚徒。
He exits, leaving Regulus to her mathematical prison.

星锑：乌尔里希，你的行为和那些恶劣的水手有什么区别——
Regulus: You better keep your word, Ulrich, or you'll be no different than those sailors.

星锑：他们至少不打算用可恶的数学来摧毁我的灵魂！
Regulus: At least they didn't torture me with maths!

星锑：救救我，布莱恩·梅、吉姆·莫里森、弗兰克·扎帕……
Regulus: Lend me your strength, Brian May, Jim Morrison, Frank Zappa ...

星锑：不——！
Regulus: Oh, God!

逐渐黑屏，越来越小的人声

时间过去了多久？
How much time has passed?

至少对于星锑而言，这一概念显得太过陌生而冷酷。
Regulus has lost all concept of it.

无数的数字在她的眼前跳舞、打转，字符模糊了视线。
Endless numbers dance before her eyes, spinning and blurring together.

在浩如烟海的参考文献与典籍里，那可恶的数字谜题将她包围其中。
It's like she's descended into some kind of cursed land of numbers.

乌尔里希：这只是一场简单的考核，不是去战场上送死。
Ulrich: You're taking a test, not going to war.

APPLe：……船长，APPLe某对此似乎有些印象。
APPLe: Captain, this APPLe has an impression on this.

37：嗯……因为你是无理数，才会被盯上的吧。
37: Hmm. Maybe you were their target because you are an irrational number.

APPLe：所以这是不可能的谜题吗？
APPLe: Is it really a puzzle unsolvable?

37：你在害怕吗？
37: Are you scared?

APPLe：船长——！
APPLe: Captain!

37：快跟上来，星锑。
37: Follow me, Regulus.

乌尔里希：祝你好运，星锑研究员。
Ulrich: Best of luck, Researcher Regulus.

星锑：——！
Regulus: ...!

星锑：我是谁……？我在哪儿……？
Regulus: Where am I? Who am I?

恍惚间，她似乎领悟了某种真谛。
In her daze, she's brought back to her days in Apeiron.

星锑：这个世界一定是来自阿派朗学派的一场巨大阴谋——！
Regulus: Why's this happening to me? Is this some kind of cruel joke from that Apeiron lot?

眼前的景象重新清晰了起来。
This realization seems to clear her mind for a moment.

是的，它们不过是一个又一个的数学恶魔罢了！
There's no escape from those mathematical demons!

星锑：救命啊——！
Regulus: Somebody! Anybody! Help me, please!!

特殊玩法-做数独题（已和系统确认）
The mathematical onslaught seems endless.

单方面的数字霸凌似乎远远没有尽头。
Ulrich opens the door and takes Regulus's scribbled piece of notepaper.

毫不知情的组长推门而入，它接过那张涂成一团乱麻的稿纸。

乌尔里希：看起来你的精神状态还不错，星锑研究员。
Ulrich: Glad to see you're still in high spirits, Researcher Regulus.

乌尔里希：但很遗憾，这可不是什么数独游戏。
Ulrich: Hmm, but this doesn't add up. I gave you an encrypted code, not a Sudoku puzzle.

星锑：什……么？
Regulus: Wh-What do you mean?

可怜的船长如遭雷击。
Regulus looks as though she's just been struck by lightning.

乌尔里希：你太悲观了，星锑研究员——打起精神来！
Ulrich: Come on. Get yourself together!

乌尔里希：第九次“暴雨”已经过去了，我们现在有充分的时间学习数学。
Ulrich: The ninth "Storm" has passed, Researcher Regulus. You've had plenty of time to brush up on your math.

组长从纷纷扬扬落下的纸质雨幕中穿行而过，随手接下了其中一张凌乱的稿纸。
Ulrich strides over, picking up a paper from the desk on his way.

乌尔里希：在这里，我们只需要将这些信息编码进行最基本的解码，再代入拉普拉斯的密钥进行重编译……注意它们尾部第四位数字的变化，星锑研究员。
Ulrich: Alright, let me explain. All you have to do is a basic decode and transcription of the result using the Laplace encryption key. See how the fourth from last digits have changed?

乌尔里希：第十七区间的数字，没有任何一个数字大于24，而第十八区间的数字限度则是59……因此，我们便能做出一个大胆的假设——
Ulrich: There are no numbers greater than 24 within the 17th interval, and those in the 18th interval don't exceed 59. So, if we make a bold assumption here—

乌尔里希：这些代码很可能隶属于拉普拉斯命名法，这一规则要求将第十二区至第十八区用作可转译的时间编码。
Ulrich: These numbers have probably been coded using Laplace's nomenclature, where the codes of time are always placed between the 12th and 18th intervals.

乌尔里希：它们被广泛运用于科算中心相关的船只编号、天文事业、人员批次等资料收录中。
Ulrich: You'll see this a lot here. We use them for ships, satellites, manpower arrangements, and such.

乌尔里希：将这些转译后的编码输入到拉普拉斯的天文数据库后，我得到了它们。
Ulrich: Finally, we input the result into the Laplace astronomy database to see if we find any matches and ... there.

乌尔里希：一组天文照片。
Ulrich: A set of photos taken from space.

星锑视角：画面中心是排列成一排的照片【需要标明年份】

星锑：……！
Regulus: Huh?

星锑：你的意思是，困扰我这么久的，只是几张普通的照片——？！
Regulus: Are you telling me I spent the whole day doing this just to find a few photos?

乌尔里希：星锑研究员，它们也许比你意识到的更重要一些。
Ulrich: These aren't just any photos, Researcher Regulus. Take a closer look.

乌尔里希：第一张拍摄于1995年12月2日，内容为太阳与日球层探测器的发射升空。
Ulrich: The first picture was taken on December 2nd, 1995, the day the Solar and Heliospheric Observatory was launched.

像是打开了灵感的缺口，源源不断的信息激烈而迅速地涌入了星锑的大脑。
Ulrich continues to deliver a flurry of information.

乌尔里希：根据上面的数据显示，第二张照片拍摄于1997年6月25日，具体内容为太阳黑子的活动记录。
Ulrich: The second picture was taken on June 25th, 1997, during a period of sunspot activity.

乌尔里希：而第三张照片拍摄于1998年11月21日，内容为太空拍摄，空间站的第一个舱体，一颗人造卫星。
Ulrich: The third one is from November 21st, 1998. It's an image of the first satellite ever deployed from a space station.

星锑：第四张是在1999年12月28日，拍下来的是一场……橄榄球赛？
Regulus: And the fourth is from December 28th, 1999. Is that a rugby game?

乌尔里希：那是在墨尔本举办的最后一场球赛，自那之后，那个体育场就被推平了，现在大概被归入了某类千篇一律的商业区划中。
Ulrich: Yes. Looks like it was the last one held in that stadium in Melbourne. The place is just a commercial district now.

她的视线继续向后，却又突兀地卡在了下一张照片。
Her eyes wander over the next photos. Then, she freezes.

星锑：不、不，这不对——！
Regulus: But, wait. This isn't right!

星锑：如果按照你的说法，那么后面的照片根本无法解释……
Regulus: If you're suggesting what I think you are, then these next photos are ...

她的声线有些颤抖。
Her eyes widen.

乌尔里希：是的，从第五张照片开始，我们已经无法确认具体的拍摄内容，它们可能涉及哈雷彗星、柯伊伯带阋神星、乌卢鲁运动会、摇滚音乐节等一系列内容。
Ulrich: That's right. From the fifth photo onward, we can't pinpoint their exact time or location, but it seems they involve Halley's Comet, 136199 Eris and the Kuiper Belt, the Uluru Games, and a rock festival.

乌尔里希：更可怕的是，它们的时间仍在向前。
Ulrich: And there are more. Take a look at these time stamps.

乌尔里希：2001年2月9日，2003年10月21日，2005年11月……
Ulrich: February 9th, 2001 ... October 21st, 2003 ... November, 2005 ...

星锑：最后一张是……2007年4月16日。
Regulus: And the last one's from ... April 16th, 2007.

星锑：……
Regulus: ...

组长抬起头来，窗外万里无云，巨大的信息流在其中悄无声息地奔涌。
Ulrich looks out to the endless blue of the sky outside.

乌尔里希：这证明了一件事。在我们，在基金会，在所有人未曾理解即将面临的浩劫，在第一次“暴雨”到来之时——
Ulrich: This proves one thing: Before all our struggles to study and control the effects of the "Storm" ...

乌尔里希：有一位先驱，他穿越了“暴雨”，为我们留下了这些宝贵的信息。
Ulrich: This pioneer crossed the "Storm" unscathed and sent us these images.

“暴雨”，一个沉重的话题。
The "Storm." That heavy topic.

它又一次突兀地在人们的眼前显现，漫不经心地作弄着每一个试图理解这个荒唐世界的人。
Once again, it rears its ugly head, mocking anyone who dares to make sense of its absurdity.

星锑：可……
Regulus: But ...

好在永远有人不会接受它的摆布。
Thankfully, there will always be someone who doesn't bend to its desires.

星锑：你为什么要告诉我这些？难道其他拉普拉斯员工的考核，都涉及这么重要的机密内容吗？
Regulus: Why are you telling me all this? Did everyone else's assessments turn into some kind of top-secret briefing?

星锑：……我只是希望预支一部分工资而已啊！
Regulus: All I wanted was an advance on my salary!

组长极力压抑住隐隐作痛的磁流体。
The ferrofluid gives a stifled pang.

乌尔里希：……
Ulrich: ...

乌尔里希：星锑，你明白么，一项伟大的事业正在我们面前展开——
Ulrich: Just for once, could you see the bigger picture here? We've been presented with an amazing opportunity.

乌尔里希：——难道你只能想到这个？！
Ulrich: And all you can think about is your salary?!

LEE-04 时代之声 / Music of the Era

星锑：阿嚏——！这儿的灰尘未免也太多了！
Regulus: Achoo! Ugh, the dust in here! What, are we inside some kind of vacuum cleaner?

星锑：乌尔里希组长，难道这就是你随身携带玻璃脑袋的原因吗？
Regulus: Is that why you always wear that fish tank on your head?

Familiar with Regulus's quirks, Ulrich opts for the most efficient form of communication: none.

摸清了身旁组员的习性后，快步前进的组长早已明了最妥善的交流方式。

乌尔里希：……
Ulrich: ...

星锑：你在践行某种绝不附和他人的摇滚精神吗？
Regulus: What's got you so quiet? Pulling the "strong and silent" act now?

乌尔里希：我们到了。
Ulrich: Here we are.

陌生的环境久疏打理，灰尘与杂物肆无忌惮地徜徉在观测台所有目所能及的角落。
The site has been utterly neglected. Dust and debris litter every corner of it.

星锑：这里是……？
Regulus: Here, as in ...?

乌尔里希：拉普拉斯克罗纳拉发射场，拉普拉斯、基金会、美国航空航天局曾在这展开过许多合作项目。
Ulrich: The Laplace launch site in Sydney. We've collaborated with the Foundation and the space agency for various projects here.

星锑：多亏了你的提醒，组长。我差点以为这儿是某个摇滚歌手的家了。
Regulus: Thanks for the heads-up. I almost thought we'd just barged into some rock star's house.

乌尔里希：事实上，在两年之后，这儿才被正式列为航空航天的发射场之一。
Ulrich: It will actually take another two years before this place becomes an official launch site.

星锑：噢！我差点儿忘了，我们现在正处于“过去”。
Regulus: Oh! Yeah, right, we're basically living in the past.

乌尔里希：为了验证那颗卫星的资料，我先后辗转了数个卫星发射基地，圭亚那航天中心、普列谢茨克航天发射场……最后才来到了这里。
Ulrich: I visited various launch sites to verify the photos—Guiana Space Centre, Plesetsk Cosmodrome—then, I found this place.

乌尔里希：尽管大部分的资料早就被“暴雨”摧毁了，但好在这儿还保留了不少前期的调研资料。
Ulrich: Most of its archives were lost in the "Storm," but a small portion of the early records survived.

乌尔里希：我把它们和我整理的资料都放在这里……
Ulrich: I left them here with the rest of the files I compiled.

文件与纸张们随着组长越发急迫的翻找动作一同飞扬起来。
Papers scatter into the air as he rummages through the files.

乌尔里希：该死的，它们被扔哪儿去了——？！！！
Ulrich: Damn it! Where did they go?!

磁流体的波动震耳欲聋。

星锑：哈……？
Regulus: Huh?!

星锑：那我们是不是可以各回各家……
Regulus: So, does this mean we can all go home now?

乌尔里希：没门儿！
Ulrich: Absolutely not!

乌尔里希：星锑，你得到了一项新任务：呆在原地别动，什么也别做，等着我找回那些资料！
Ulrich: Alright, new task: Stay put and don't touch anything. I need to find those files.

星锑：好吧。
Regulus: Ugh, fine.

组长的身影匆匆离去，星锑举起的手臂仅仅维持了一瞬。
As Ulrich makes his exit, Regulus scans the room, a glint growing behind her eyes.

星锑：——才怪～

星锑：尘封的军事基地，隐秘的传闻……喔，这里面一定藏着某种重大的秘密！
Regulus: An old military base, mysterious photos ... Oh, this is going to be juicy!

星锑：乌尔里希组长决不能阻止一位躁动的摇滚海盗放弃对宝藏、咳……对重要资料的追逐！
Regulus: No chance Ulrich is stopping this rockin' pirate from going after treasure, I mean, very, very important files.
Regulus: The hunt is on!

星锑：本船长宣布，发射场大冒险正式启航——！
Regulus: Haha! Let's start with what's on this table!

星锑：嗯哼～就从这张幸运的桌子开始吧～
The clinking and clattering of rummaging fills the air, like a string of cheerful musical notes.

叮叮当当的翻找声此起彼伏，像是一簇簇欢快的音符。

星锑：♪～♫～～♬～～～～
Regulus: ♪ ... ♫ ... ♬

星锑：噢，差点忘了最重要的事——对未知之地的探索怎么能缺少一首同样激情的摇滚乐伴奏呢？！
Regulus: Oh, I almost forgot! Can't go treasure hunting without some music to rock out to!

拨动旋钮，打开功率扩大器。
Turning the knob, she powers up the amplifier.

世界属于摇滚！
The world belongs to rock!

远远传来的强有力的震动令它脑子里的磁流体几乎要蹦出玻璃缸来。
The vibrations reach Ulrich, causing the ferrofluid to ripple.

连桌面也在轻微地晃荡。
Even the desk is trembling.

乌尔里希：该死的，我忘了禁止她制造噪音！
Ulrich: Damn it! I forgot to tell her to keep quiet!

？？？：咕吱——！
???: Squawk!

更刺耳的鸟鸣声盖过了远处的哼唱。
The screech of a bird pierces through the pumping music.

乌尔里希：怎么了？这里地震了吗？
Ulrich: What's happening? Is this an earthquake?

几团灵巧的黑影蹦到了观测台的高处。
A few agile black shadows leap around the upper parts of the observation deck.

在一阵剧烈的震颤中，一张贴在墙板上的便签轻飘飘地滑落下来。
The tremors free a note pinned to the wall, and it flutters down to the ground.

上面的字体相当眼熟。
The handwriting is all too familiar:

“调查员报告，附近发生过数起特里波德罗袭击人类事件。”
"Investigator's Report: Multiple Tripodero attacks on humans have occurred in the area."

“它们似乎把这儿的废弃工程视为自己的领地，会对任何入侵领地的外来生物发起攻击。”
"They seem to regard this abandoned facility as their territory, attacking any intruders."

“记得动作放轻些！！！”
"Remember: Keep your movements quiet!!!"

记录人：乌尔里希
Ulrich

乌尔里希：噢，该死——这是我之前留下来的！
Ulrich: Ah, crap! This is the note I wrote last time I was here!

磁流体迅速扩散出一圈涟漪。
The ferrofluid ripples violently.

乌尔里希：星锑，把你的音响关了！——立刻！马上！
Ulrich: Regulus! Turn off that speaker! Now!

星锑：♪～♫～～
Regulus: ♪ ... ♫ ...

快乐的寻宝海盗依然沉浸在自己的世界里。
Regulus is too immersed in her treasure-seeking to hear him.

特里波德罗：吱吱——吱吱——！
Tripodero: Squawk!

一团墨绿色的黏液从高处射了下来，乌尔里希打了个滚儿，堪堪躲了过去。
A glob of dark green sludge shoots down from above. Ulrich darts aside, narrowly avoiding the attack.

乌尔里希：干**的[拉普拉斯脏话]！
Ulrich: I knew I should have upgraded my memo module!

乌尔里希：我早晚有一天得给这套装置搭载最新的备忘录系统！
He looks to the observation deck. There is Regulus, gleefully twisting to the music.

它瞥了眼身后星锑所在的观测台，仿佛看到后者正欢快地跳着扭扭舞。
He looks to the observation deck. There is Regulus, gleefully twisting to the music.

乌尔里希：……乌尔里希，你得老老实实给每一位不靠谱的组员擦屁股，这是你的职责。
Ulrich: Calm down, Ulrich. You're a leader. It's part of your job to clean up after your team.

组长环视四周难以估算价值的装置与器械，叹了口气，转头便闪进了紧急出口的通道。
He looks over the priceless equipment around him and sighs before ducking through the emergency exit.

捍卫领地的特里波德罗们紧随其后。
The Tripoderos follow in hot pursuit.

磁流体的“思想电流”在一个个电子元件中迸出激烈的火花，嘈杂的噪音接连不断地涌出，三脚架鸟儿们四散奔逃。
Ulrich sends a current through the electronic components around him, creating a cacophony of sounds that sends the Tripoderos scattering.

特里波德罗：吱！#&%——
Tripodero: Squawk!

乌尔里希：**的[拉普拉斯脏话]——终于结束了！
Ulrich: Flux! FLUX! Finally, it's over!

组长毫不留情地谩骂着，终于将最后一件毁坏的器械塞进了回收箱。
Ulrich stuffs the last piece of damaged equipment into the recovery bin.

它气喘吁吁地翻回了窗户。
Then, he climbs back through the window. He is visibly drained.

乌尔里希：冷静，乌尔里希，冷静……想成为一个成熟的组长，你不得不接受这滑稽的现实。
Ulrich: Relax. Don't overheat. You'll have to get used to this if you wanna be a good leader.

一无所知的步伐蹦蹦跳跳地回到了这里。
Regulus bounces lightly into the room.

星锑：嘿，组长——
Regulus: Ulrich!

星锑：瞧我发现了什么——！
Regulus: Look what I found!

她晃了晃手中的战利品——一份写有乌尔里希亲笔签名的厚重档案。
She waves her treasure—a hefty stack of documents, signed in bold by Ulrich himself.

星锑：为我欢呼吧！
Regulus: Ahem. Where's my round of applause?

星锑：如果是一位合格的组长，它一定会为星锑研究员的卓越表现争取一个令人满意的薪水评级！
Regulus: If you're even half a leader, you'll fight your hardest to get a decent salary for such an outstanding employee as myself!

摇滚海盗得意地朝着组长挤眉弄眼。
She shoots him a triumphant wink.

乌尔里希：……好。
Ulrich: Sure.

星锑：但身为一位合格的研究员，我必须本着科研精神说出一个事实……
Regulus: Just one more thing, scientist to scientist—

星锑的眉头紧皱，朝着乌尔里希身旁仍在滋滋作响的老旧机器们努了努嘴。
Regulus gestures toward the still-sparking machines beside Ulrich.

星锑：乌尔里希组长，我不知道你竟然有着这么前卫而特别的音乐喜好～
Regulus: You made some pretty cool "electronic music" in that battle. Didn't know you had it in you!

乌尔里希：……
Ulrich: ...

组长深深地叹了口气，决定不再与这位跳脱的组员进行任何辩驳。
Ulrich lets out a deep sigh, deciding to avoid any further arguments with his team member.

乌尔里希：这些就是我们能找到的关于这座天文望远镜卫星项目的全部资料。
Ulrich: Here are all the files related to the satellite.

乌尔里希：打开看看吧，星锑。
Ulrich: Look them over, Regulus.

星锑：乌尔里希组长……我们非得现在就和文字战斗吗？
Regulus: Do we have to go through all this right now?

星锑：难道这些资料里还有比那些天文照片更劲爆的内容？
Regulus: Why? Is there some even more juicy stuff in them?

乌尔里希：对你而言，是的。
Ulrich: For you, it might be.

乌尔里希：这一卫星项目的载荷舱搭载了许多神秘学材料制品，包括太空种子、龙血树脂罗盘、黑曜石晶体、广域照相机、天体摄谱仪等等……
Ulrich: The satellite carries a variety of arcane items. Space seeds, dragon tree resin compasses, obsidian crystals, WFPCs, astronomical spectrometers ...

乌尔里希：甚至连它的动力源也是一台神秘学唱片机。
Ulrich: Even its power source is an arcane record player.

乌尔里希：我们已经将所有相关的材料列入了“人工暴雨”项目的实验清单，那正是我们之后要探索的方向。
Ulrich: We've made a list of everything that was on it so we can test them against the "Artificial Storm."

乌尔里希：它们象征着人类对于最尖端神秘学与科研技术的探索。我们的望远镜同事携带着这些人类智慧的结晶，孤独地躲过一次又一次“暴雨”。
Ulrich: The satellite is an archive of the wisdom of the entire human race. It's somehow survived multiple "Storms."

星锑：……你们不打算接它回家吗？
Regulus: What are you going to do with it?

乌尔里希：很遗憾，因为缺少维修，它最终因为零件故障而坠毁了。
Ulrich: Sadly, a lack of maintenance caused it to plummet to the Earth.

乌尔里希：坠毁的时间正是你所经历的时代，1966年。
Ulrich: It crashed in your time, 1966.

星锑：……！
Regulus: ...!

星锑的墨镜在震惊中掉到了地上，但她无暇顾及。
Regulus's sunglasses slide off her face, but she doesn't even notice.

她抢过那沓厚重的空间望远镜资料，翻到了最后一页。
She grabs the stack of documents and flips to the last page.

“至此，该空间望远镜于2007年坠毁于伦敦奥尔德堡，携带仪器一并损毁，遗失……回收失败。”
"The telescope officially crashed in 2007 in Aldeburgh, England. All onboard instruments were destroyed ... Recovery failed."

“‘星锑空间望远镜’项目，报告如上。”
"'Regulus Space Telescope' project report: as above."

乌尔里希：这个空间望远镜项目的命名，那台搭载其中的神秘学唱片机的唱片，还有你的名字……
Ulrich: The telescope project was named after a record that was on the satellite, which also happens to share your name.

星锑：都是……星锑？！
Regulus: Regulus!

星锑将背包抱在胸前，装满珍藏的口袋微微敞开。
Regulus holds her backpack tightly to her chest, its pockets full of treasures.

颤抖的手指抚过一张张唱片，她清楚地意识到自己在寻找什么。
She flips through a series of records, her hands trembling.

她终于找到了那张“正确”的珍藏——一张与资料图案一模一样的唱片。
Finally, she finds the treasure she is looking for—a record identical to the one depicted in the documents.

来自1966年的奥尔德堡“陨石坑”音乐节上的一次意外。
It's from the 1966 Aldeburgh "Crater" Music Festival, an accident from the past.

伟大的摇滚海盗最爱的那一张。
And her all-time favorite.

星锑：是它……我最宝贝的“小东西”？
Regulus: My "little thing"—it was the record on the satellite?

乌尔里希：——！
Ulrich: ...!

乌尔里希：真没想到，它竟然如此完好地保存在你手里！
Ulrich: Yes, that's the one! Wow, you've kept it in great shape!

星锑：在它身上，也许就藏着能让我们越过“暴雨”的秘密……？
Regulus: So, this is the key to braving the "Storm"?

乌尔里希：我唯一能够确认的是，它是“免疫回溯”的可能性之一。
Ulrich: It might be. Among several other options.

星锑：这也是你将我列入“暴雨”专项研究小组成员名单的原因。
Regulus: I get it. That's why you wanted me on the "Storm" research team.

乌尔里希：不止如此。
Ulrich: Not just that.

乌尔里希：我了解过那座数字岛的事件报告，你在谷神星解码中展现了出色的解密天赋……更重要的是，你亲历了数次“暴雨”。
Ulrich: I've read the Apeiron Island reports. You demonstrated some serious talent with the Ceres puzzle in that cave, and you've faced more "Storms" than the majority of the Laplace staff.

乌尔里希：这不是为了某个人的研究成果，而是为了全人类的希望……
Ulrich: We're not working together for a couple of research papers. This is about the survival of everything on Earth.

乌尔里希：你理应成为其中的一份子。
Ulrich: We need all the help we can get, including yours.

星锑：……
Regulus: ...

跳脱的组员罕见地沉默了许久。
Regulus falls into an uncharacteristic silence.

乌尔里希：咳、事实上，关于如何借用你的唱片，基金会和拉普拉斯甚至开展了一次专门的研讨会。
Ulrich: Ahem. In fact, Laplace even held a meeting with the Foundation to discuss borrowing your record.

乌尔里希：基金会方建议，我们应该以“人工暴雨”项目的名义，向基金会总部申请物品调令，由他们与司辰进行后续对接工作。
Ulrich: The Foundation suggested we apply for an item transfer order under the "Artificial Storm" project and let the Timekeeper take over the matter.

乌尔里希：科算中心的一些同事告诉我，对内部职员的资产调用，可以直接援引《拉普拉斯科算中心人员处理条例》，这是每一位科算中心人的义务。
Ulrich: ...

乌尔里希：……
The frequency of the ferrofluid's vibrations is chaotic, like some kind of unsolvable cipher.

磁流体的震动频率杂乱无序，形如某种没有答案的密文。
Ulrich: But ... alright.

乌尔里希：好吧好吧——
Ulrich: Let me be honest with you. I'm not comfortable with taking your record by force. It's yours, after all. It's your choice what you do with it.

乌尔里希：我承认，我一点儿也不想援引那些该死的条例，它们完全违背了个人意志——无论如何，这是你的唱片！
Ulrich: Let me be honest with you. I'm not comfortable with taking your record by force. It's yours, after all. It's your choice what you do with it.

乌尔里希：因此，我只想在这儿，以乌尔里希的个人名义和你谈一谈。
Ulrich: So, here I am, not as your leader, but as myself, hoping we can find a solution that works for both of us.

星锑：……
Regulus: ...

星锑：乌尔里希组长，有人告诉过你……你真的很不适合做演讲吗？
Regulus: Has anyone ever told you that you're terrible at negotiations?

乌尔里希：——该死的，我就知道没那么容易！
Ulrich: Ah, damn it. I knew it wouldn't be easy.

组长恼怒地挥了挥拳头，那张令它魂牵梦萦的唱片却直楞楞地停留在它的眼前。
He angrily knocks his tank with his fist. He is so close to the record he's been searching for.

玻璃缸的磁流体显著地炸开了一个微妙的弧度。
The ferrofluid ripples into a subtle arc.

星锑：……
Regulus: ...

星锑：拿去搞你的“人工暴雨”研究吧，乌尔里希组长～
Regulus: Go ahead, Mr. Ulrich. Take it.

星锑：在我改变主意之前。
Regulus: Before I change my mind.

星锑的表情从未如此郑重。
Regulus's expression has never been so serious.

乌尔里希：你愿意将它捐赠给“人工暴雨”项目——？！
Ulrich: Y-You're willingly giving it over to the "Artificial Storm" project?

准备好的数套说辞扑了个空。
His carefully prepared arguments vanish in a moment.

星锑：毕竟你们也是为了解决“暴雨”问题，这也称得上是与摇滚乐同样伟大的事业了！
Regulus: For a cause even greater than rock music? Absolutely!

星锑：但事先声明——这只是暂时的捐赠，实验结束后，你必须马上归还它！
Regulus: But just to be clear: I'm only lending it to Laplace. You have to give it back when you're done!

星锑：这可是全球仅此一张的限量款！是将要流传在星锑博物馆的镇馆之宝！！！
Regulus: It's the only copy in the world and the future centerpiece of the Regulus Museum!

乌尔里希：感谢你的奉献，星锑研究员。
Ulrich: Thank you, Researcher Regulus. Thank you so much!

乌尔里希：我原以为这会是场相当复杂的谈判。为了应付这一风险，我甚至提前向拉普拉斯申请了一大笔专项经费，以及一个月的自由假期……
Ulrich: I was gearing up for a much tougher talk. I even applied for additional funding and a month's leave to offer you as leverage. Well, I suppose I won't have to use it after all.

玻璃镜面映出的自豪的扭扭舞步僵在了原地。
Regulus freezes.
Regulus: AH! WHAT?!

星锑：什么——？！
The suitcase is in its usual harmony.

箱中的气氛显然要比外界安静得多。
Its occupants go about their business, each busying themselves in their own little worlds.

人们各行其是，在房间里忙碌着各自的小世界。

？？？：司辰——？
???: Timekeeper?

维尔汀：十四行诗，你看起来很忙碌。
Vertin: Sonetto? What's the rush?

十四行诗：……我来提醒您，我们在澳大利亚的假期已经结束了。
Sonetto: I just wanted to remind you that our vacation in Australia is over.

十四行诗：如果您有什么需要收拾的行李，请告诉我。
Sonetto: If you need any help packing, please let me know.

她擦了擦额头上渗出的细汗，又突然想起了什么。
She wipes the sweat from her forehead. Then, she remembers something.

十四行诗：对了，这是留给您的。
Sonetto: Oh, and I have something for you.

一张花花绿绿的纸张被递到了维尔汀的面前。
She hands her a colorful piece of paper.

维尔汀：……？
Vertin: Huh?

十四行诗：星锑委托我将它分发给大家，她在游轮宣传比赛中赢得了这一批战利品。
Sonetto: Regulus asked me to pass these out. She won them at a sailaway party.

十四行诗：“非常有纪念价值！值得所有人瞻仰！”她是这么说的。
Sonetto: She said they're "highly valuable, the finest choice for any collection," if I recall correctly.

维尔汀：可这似乎只是一张普通的广告宣传单……难道其中藏着某种深意吗？
Vertin: Looks like an ordinary flyer to me.

十四行诗：我已经检查过了。
Sonetto: I've already inspected them.
Sonetto: They're just advertisements with a handwritten signature in the corner and some completely over-the-top promises.

十四行诗：里面只是些寻常的宣传口号，一个漂亮的手写签名……噢，还有几句让人看不懂的句子。
Sonetto: Regulus told me it's a trick that advertisers use. They use fancy words to catch people's eyes and make it seem more grand.

十四行诗：星锑告诉我，这是广告商惯用的手段，用一些让人看不懂的话语来凸显商品的文化与底蕴。
Sonetto: Phrases like "an opulent odyssey upon the boundless sea," "tour the illustrious Pacific coast," "a veritable feast of harmonic reverie," "rare and fortuitous seasonal discount," and "facilities unimaginable in their splendor" ...

十四行诗：“豪华海上假期”、“环太平洋巡游”、“音乐盛宴”、“季节折扣”、“豪华设施”……
Sonetto: Hmm. What's this on the back?

十四行诗：嗯……那些句子是……
Sonetto: Nor happiness, nor harmony, nor fame,

十四行诗：欢欣，平安，或是声名，康健
Sonetto: Nor happiness, nor harmony, nor fame,

十四行诗：又及敬佩与尊严，技巧同孔武
Sonetto: Nor pride, nor strength, nor skill in arms or arts.

维尔汀：——！
Vertin: ...!

熟悉的词句如同激荡的电流在耳边炸响。
Those familiar words hit like a tidal wave.

维尔汀：那牧鞭与其谦卑羔羊算得什么？
Vertin: Before a cruel whip ...

众：人，要想成为人
Man who man would be,

众：须主宰自身上建立的王廷，以自我所克制的意识
Must rule the empire of himself; in it must be supreme, establishing his throne ...

众：平定他的渴求与惧怕蛊惑
On vanquished will; quelling the challenges of hopes and fears ...

完全地成为他自己本人
Being himself alone.

她触电般地缩回了手。
She recoils in shock.

传单飘落在地。
The flyer falls to the ground.

十四行诗：……！
Sonetto: ...!

十四行诗：您怎么了——司辰？
Sonetto: Is everything alright, Timekeeper?

那是一首她曾无比熟悉的诗。
This is a poem she once knew intimately.

它曾由许多双稚嫩的手托举而起，在许多同样稚嫩的声带间缓缓流淌。
One that had been held by countless young hands and flowed gently through equally young voices.

在树洞，在广场，在门外。
In the tree hollow, in the square, in the outdoors.

维尔汀：……
Vertin: ...

维尔汀：十四行诗，计划有变。
Vertin: Sonetto, change of plan.

维尔汀：我需要立刻联系基金会。
Vertin: We need to contact the Foundation. Now.

LEE-05 离港日 / The Day We Set Sail

康斯坦丁：会长，向您致意。
Constantine: Good afternoon, Mr. President.

康斯坦丁：愿和平与我们同在。
Constantine: May the peace be with us.

会长：愿和平与我们同在，我的朋友。
President: May the peace be with us, my friend.

康斯坦丁微微颔首，目光落在更深的阴影里。
Constantine gives a slight nod as she peers into the shadows.

康斯坦丁：芝诺军备学院的内部整顿行动已经结束了，如预期一样，除了一部分伊戈尔的极端拥护者，大部分的人员对此次叛逃事件并不知情。
Constantine: Zeno has been restored to its usual state. Aside from Igor's ardent supporters, the rest of the Zeno soldiers and officers were unaware of his betrayal—just as we expected.

康斯坦丁：我们按原定计划为“上将伊戈尔”举办了隆重的葬礼，按照芝诺葬礼的规定，所有芝诺军备学院的相关人员都留在了南美。
Constantine: "Admiral Igor's funeral" has been held as planned—one that befits his rank and status. All relevant personnel remained in South America for the ceremony, as per Zeno's funeral regulations.

康斯坦丁：目前新的上将人选仍在遴选中，稍后我会将他们的名单呈递给您。
Constantine: We're in the process of selecting a new admiral. I'll provide you with the candidate list shortly.

康斯坦丁：另外，我们派出了一支特殊调查小队前往火地岛，持续追查伊戈尔的动向。
Constantine: Additionally, we've dispatched an investigative team to Tierra del Fuego to search for Igor.

会长：很好。
President: Very well.

会长：那个女孩呢？
President: What about the girl?

温顺的领结迟滞了片刻。
She pauses.

康斯坦丁：女孩……洛佩拉？
Constantine: The girl? Are you referring to Lopera?

康斯坦丁：她的情绪已经稳定下来了，我们暂时将她留在南美分部。
Constantine: Her emotions have stabilized, so we've decided to leave her in South America for the moment. Of course, she'll be put through the necessary investigations as circumstances dictate.

当然，必要的调查质询无法避免。

会长：抓牢她。
President: Keep a close eye on her.

会长：噢，还有那只爱唱歌的小鸟。
President: Oh, and that little singing bird?

康斯坦丁：……
Constantine: ...

康斯坦丁不着痕迹地走近了几步，压低了声音。
Constantine takes a step closer, lowering her voice.

康斯坦丁：芝诺方对金伯利女郎的处理决定相当不满，他们坚持要求对她进行更全面的调查……
Constantine: Zeno is quite upset about our decision regarding Ms. Kimberly. They're insisting she undergoes a more thorough investigation.

康斯坦丁：我担心过度的干涉会引起芝诺的不满。
Constantine: I feared that if we gave too much pushback, they would take a more extreme stance in response. So I agreed.

会长：军人的执拗啊……
President: *sigh* Those soldiers never budge.

康斯坦丁：当然，芝诺承诺，他们对金伯利女郎的审查会在基金会的监督下进行。
Constantine: Of course, Zeno agreed that the investigation would be done under the supervision of the Foundation.

康斯坦丁：在调查结束后，她才能被正式编入司辰小队，享有相应的权利，并由司辰直接指挥。
Constantine: If nothing else comes up, she will be put into the Timekeeper's team and granted the same rights as the other members.

会长：别让维尔汀等太久。
President: Good. Don't keep Vertin waiting too long.

芝诺的棋子安全落地，康斯坦丁悄无声息地松了口气。
The Zeno piece has landed safely. Constantine gives an internal sigh of relief.

康斯坦丁：另外，接Z女士报告，司辰小队传回了新的情报。
Constantine: There's more. Madam Z has received word from the Timekeeper.

康斯坦丁：司辰在悉尼港发现了重塑之手的踪迹，他们极有可能藏身在一艘名为“自由海风号”的游轮上。
Constantine: The Timekeeper suspects Manus Vindictae is active again in Sydney Harbor. They're likely onboard a cruise ship named "Free Breeze."

康斯坦丁：这也解释了外派调查小组们调查受阻的原因，重塑伪装得很好。
Constantine: This would explain why our field investigators have been having difficulties with their tasks. Manus has covered their tracks carefully this time.

会长：船的目的地呢？
President: Where's the cruise bound for?

康斯坦丁：目前尚未查明。但从飞蛾的线报来看，“自由海风号”刚刚经过了大洋洲沿岛。
Constantine: That's still unclear, sir. However, Moth just reported in, confirming that the ship has passed the Oceania islands.

会长：嗯，漂亮的出子。
President: Hmm. An interesting development.

康斯坦丁：是。
Constantine: Indeed.

康斯坦丁的语气中藏着微不可察的骄傲。
Constantine's tone carries an imperceptible trace of pride.

会长：我们在正确的道路上快步前行，这很好。
President: We're making excellent progress. That's good.

会长：给维尔汀下达新的任务。
President: Assign a new mission to Vertin.

康斯坦丁：您的意思是派遣司辰小队登船？
Constantine: You mean, to send them on that cruise?

会长：孩子总得走出安稳的家乡啊。
President: We can't keep her under our wing forever.

康斯坦丁：……是。
Constantine: Understood.

会议室又重新安静了下来。
The conference room falls silent once more.

层叠的大理石廊柱间，有一抹雪白从窗外扑腾着飞过。
Amid the layered marble pillars, a flash of white flits past the window.

白鸽落在会长的手上，轻啄其中的掌纹。
A white dove lands on the President's hand and gently pecks at his palm.

会长：老朋友，有什么事儿需要你亲自跑一趟呢？
President: What brings you all the way over here, old friend?

他低下头去，任由对方亲昵地蹭着他的指尖。
He lowers his head, allowing the bird to nuzzle his fingertips.

会长：哦……哦……嗯……
President: Oh ... Mm ... Mm.

会长：……
President: ...

那抹雪白又轻飘飘地飞走了。
The white dove takes wing, flitting away once more.

会长：科算中心提交了关于“人工暴雨”的援助申请？
President: So, Laplace has requested the Foundation's assistance with the "Artificial Storm" project?

康斯坦丁：是的，负责这一项目的是乌尔里希。它请求基金会向科算中心澳洲分部提供一批非对称核素R，越多越好。
Constantine: Yes. Ulrich is overseeing the project and has requested as much asymmetrical nuclide R as we can spare.

康斯坦丁：另外，它希望我们的调查员能配合寻找符合实验环境的对应坐标。
Constantine: He's also requested our help in determining the most suitable location for the experiment.

康斯坦丁：我拿到过一些符合科算中心需要的资料……
Constantine: I have several in mind that should meet his needs.

康斯坦丁不由自主地停顿了片刻。
Constantine involuntarily pauses for a moment.

康斯坦丁：距离澳洲分部最近的实验坐标，正是那艘“自由海风号”。
Constantine: The location closest to Laplace's Australian branch is on the sea, right where the "Free Breeze" cruise ship happens to be.

会长：倒是很合理。
President: I see where you're going.

康斯坦丁：我担心这会牵涉到我们在重塑之手的布局。
Constantine: However, I do have concerns about how this might disrupt our current plans against Manus Vindictae.

会长：全力支持科算中心的“人工暴雨”。
President: Regardless, Laplace will have our full support for the "Artificial Storm" project.

意料之外的坚决。
Unexpected determination.

康斯坦丁：可飞蛾的状况尚不明朗。如果太过冒进……
Constantine: But Moth's status still remains unclear. If we proceed too hastily ...

康斯坦丁：它很难全身而退。
Constantine: We might jeopardize the situation.

一闪而过的犹豫落入会长的眼中。
Her fleeting hesitation catches the President's attention.

会长：我以为你早就做好了准备，我的朋友。
President: I thought you'd have foreseen something like this.

会长：命令几颗弃子不择手段地前进，接着，我们赢下整场棋局。
President: A few pieces must be sacrificed if you're to win the game.

会长：你比谁都擅长这个，对吧？
President: You know that better than anyone, don't you?

康斯坦丁：……
Constantine: ...

康斯坦丁：这是鸽子屋的意思吗？
Constantine: Is this also the Pax House's decision?

会长：是的。
President: You have my word on it.

康斯坦丁：我明白了。
Constantine: I see.

康斯坦丁：至于更多的任务细节，我会尽快知会司辰和乌尔里希。
Constantine: I'll inform the Timekeeper and Ulrich of their missions.

会长：那很好，他们的会面一定会很有趣的。
President: Thank you. I look forward to their meeting.

乌尔里希：我们又见面了，司辰。
Ulrich: We meet again, Timekeeper.

维尔汀：很高兴再见到你，乌尔里希先生。听说你和星锑的交流相当顺利？
Vertin: Pleasure's mine, Mr. Ulrich. I've heard good things about your work with Regulus.

乌尔里希：坦白说，星锑对科学进步的热情和奉献精神远超我的预料。毫不夸张地说，她是一位不求回报的伟大研究者。
Ulrich: Frankly, I was surprised by how selfless, passionate, and forward-looking she is. I'm truly grateful to have someone like her on my team.

玻璃缸里的磁流体相当稳定。
The ferrofluid is remarkably stable.

显而易见，这是一句真心话。
Clearly, this is a sincere statement.

维尔汀：……
Vertin: ...

维尔汀：“自由海风号”的情况相当复杂，我们还不清楚上面潜伏着多少重塑之手的人员。
Vertin: The situation on the "Free Breeze" is still unclear. We don't know how many Manus Vindictae followers might be on board.

维尔汀：按照计划，我们会以游客的方式登船。
Vertin: Our plan is to board the cruise as ordinary passengers.

维尔汀：星锑在“自由海风号”上有相熟的船员。她打包票，在那位朋友的帮助下，我们的登船资料已经得到了妥善的修饰，绝不会引起任何人的注意。
Vertin: Regulus said she's made acquaintance with a crew member and has made sure to alter our profiles so we don't attract any unwanted attention.

乌尔里希：了不起！原来星锑研究员申请的那一大笔经费并不只是为了个人的娱乐。
Ulrich: That's good to hear. So Regulus didn't use her money for her own amusement after all.

自言自语之余，乌尔里希终于又想起了眼下的正事。
After muttering to himself, Ulrich returns to the task at hand.

乌尔里希：我会错开你们的登船时间。
Ulrich: We should stagger our boarding times.

乌尔里希：如果发现了重塑之手的行踪，我会联络你们的。
Ulrich: I'll reach out if I spot any signs of Manus Vindictae.

乌尔里希：互通有无，朋友——！
Ulrich: Let's stay in touch. See you on board!

临行前信誓旦旦拍下的胸膛令人安心。
Ulrich gives her a reassuring pat on the shoulder.

维尔汀：我们也很乐意为你的任务提供协助……
Vertin: Mr. Ulrich, we're more than happy to assist with your mission.

乌尔里希：不、不，绝不需要！
Ulrich: Oh, no, no, no! Please, don't trouble yourself.

乌尔里希：噢，别误会，我没有轻视任何人的意思。
Ulrich: Sorry, don't get me wrong. I'd appreciate your help were the circumstances different.

乌尔里希：事实上，实验进度目前尚未对外公开。基于对“人工暴雨”项目的外部预期及风险控制，我希望你能对我们的研究进度暂时保密。
Ulrich: But the experiment is still confidential. Please don't mention it to anyone. I'd like to avoid any unnecessary risks or interference.

乌尔里希：在“自由海风号”上，我们互不相识。
Ulrich: On the cruise ship, we are but strangers.

维尔汀：……好的。
Vertin: I see.

乌尔里希：别担心，我会做好伪装工作的。
Ulrich: Don't you worry. I have a little disguise for myself, too.

LEE-06 群岛已远 / As Home Fades

大厅内吵吵嚷嚷，酒杯里晃荡的液体与叫不上名字的耳熟旋律交织在一起，显出粼粼的光彩。
The main hall is packed with passengers. Their wine sways slightly, emitting an enchanting luster in the beautiful, familiar melody.

亮眼的姑娘小心翼翼地避过兴奋的人群，像是逡巡在海中的游鱼。
Girls weave their way carefully through the excited crowd, like a school of nimble fish.

不断有绅士与淑女们向走在最前的女孩点头致意。
The passengers nod politely to the girl at the front.

客人Ⅰ：噢！芭卡洛儿小姐——您果然出现了！
Guest I: Ms. Barcarola! At last you've graced us with your presence!

客人Ⅰ：亨利先生与我打赌，我们的游轮明星决不会出现在聚光灯以外的地方，看来他要输给我一整杯威士忌了。
Guest I: Henry and I were just having a little wager on whether we'd see our musical star outside the spotlight. Looks like he'll be buying me the next round of whiskey, eh? Haha.

芭卡洛儿：当然，弗兰克先生。令每一位“自由海风号”的客人都能获得宾至如归的体验是我的责任，需要我为您的威士忌加点冰吗？
Barcarola: Ah, well bet, sir! Allow me to pour you the first glass. How do you like your whiskey? On the rocks, perhaps?

客人Ⅰ：哈哈～那可真叫人荣幸。
Guest I: Indeed, thank you, my dear.

客人Ⅱ：天呐——妈妈，您必须来看看，我发现了芭卡洛儿小姐！
Guest II: *gasp* Over here, Mum! It's Ms. Barcarola!

客人Ⅱ：上一次在港口里，芭卡洛儿小姐一个人就完成了一整支乐队的演出，我从没见过这样精彩的表演——我可没有骗您！
Guest II: Last time I saw her, she performed an entire symphony all by herself. She was the whole orchestra! I've never seen anything like it!

芭卡洛儿：你好呀，热情的小客人——我们又见面了～
Barcarola: It's good to see you again, my little friend.

一旁的妇人转过身来，怜爱地抚摸着孩子的脑袋。
The woman beside her turns around and lovingly pats the boy on the head.

客人Ⅲ：我们总算见到您了，芭卡洛儿女士。
Guest III: Ms. Barcarola, what a pleasure. I've heard so much about you.

客人Ⅲ：自从我的孩子在悉尼港和您聊天之后，他便无时无刻不在谈论着您对迪吉里杜的见解与热情……
Guest III: My child hasn't stopped talking about you since you spoke to him about the didgeridoo at Sydney Harbor.

客人Ⅲ：甚至吵着让我们买一支新的迪吉里杜带上船来～
Guest III: He was so excited by it that he begged us to bring one onboard.

芭卡洛儿：迪吉里杜确实是一件很有意思的乐器！
Barcarola: How lovely! The didgeridoo truly is an enchanting instrument.

芭卡洛儿：尽管音域不广，但胜在音色浑厚、野性而高昂……我正在尝试将它融合到啪唧匣子里，我相信它一定能和爱尔兰哨笛、卡林巴琴还有别的朋友配合得很好！
Barcarola: It's so resonant, don't you think? It almost feels like it's echoing from the depths of the earth itself. I've actually been experimenting with playing it alongside my Crackling Box. It's a wonderful match with the tin whistle and kalimba, and I'm sure a number of other instruments too!

谈及乐器上的编排，少女眼中的光芒明显热切了起来。
As she speaks, Barcarola's eyes sparkle with enthusiasm.

身旁的欢呼与喝彩声将她紧紧包裹在其中，绚丽的光芒几乎晃晕了一旁戴着墨镜的无辜游客。
The admiration surrounding her is so bright that it almost blinds the tourist standing nearby. Luckily, she's wearing sunglasses.

星锑：啧啧，看来她也是个大明星啊～
Regulus: Looks like she's pretty popular, too!

十四行诗：也……？
Sonetto: Too?

星锑：难道你忘了吗，十四行诗？我也曾在伦敦接受过万人围堵……咳、万人追捧的待遇。
Regulus: Have you forgotten, Sonetto? You're also looking at a popular public figure yourself! One that had half of London hunting, ah, oh, I mean, cheering for her.

星锑：这令我苦恼了许久～
Regulus: Ah, the bittersweet burden of fame!

维尔汀：……
Vertin: ...

不再关注眼前的插科打诨，维尔汀的目光转向了另一个更安静的角落。
Their attention is quickly turned to a quiet corner of the ship.

头戴树冠、服装鲜艳而充满海岛风情的人们围成一圈，暗铜色的肌肤在灯光下泛起光泽。
There's a group of people dressed in brightly colored clothes. Crowns made of leaves and flowers adorn their heads, and their bronze skin is glowing under the warm lights.

他们围成一圈，不时向四周张望，胸前的贝壳发出叮叮当当的碰响。
They stand in a circle, occasionally glancing around, the shells on their chests clinking together melodiously.

维尔汀：他们看起来很紧张……旅行中的游客会这样吗？
Vertin: That group over there seems unusually uptight.

环绕掌声与恭维的明星姑娘终于款款莅临了这一处角落。
Having absorbed all the adoration of the people around her, Barcarola makes her way over.

她当然不会忽视来自任何一位客人的疑惑。
She certainly wouldn't overlook the curiosity of any of her guests.

芭卡洛儿：他们是船长亲自邀请登船的贵宾，来自一个隐秘的小岛，努库泰澳。
Barcarola: Oh, those are the captain's special guests. They're from one of the Oceania archipelagos. Nukutaeao, I believe.

芭卡洛儿：请别多虑，努库泰澳的客人们或许只是不常与外人交流罢了。
Barcarola: They're probably just a bit nervous. I imagine they don't often find themselves among so many foreigners.

刚交代完眼前的小事，备受欢迎的乐手又被远处客人们的呼声匆匆唤走。
After handling the small matter at hand, Barcarola is hurriedly called away by the distant voices of other guests.

十四行诗：努库泰澳……
Sonetto: Nukutaeao ...

十四行诗：我曾在第一防线学校图书馆的《神秘学族群史》里听说过这个名字，他们以贝壳为信仰，生活在几座不知名的小岛上，几乎不会与外界有所交流……
Sonetto: I read about it in A History of Arcane Ethnicity back in the SPDM. It's a remote place, and its people hold a special kind of shell at the center of their beliefs. They've rarely made contact with the outside world.

十四行诗：那儿民风淳朴，与世无争，是无数诗人笔下歌颂的理想乡。
Sonetto: It's often been described as a peaceful paradise.

十四行诗：可我明明听说过……努库泰澳人从来都不会离开他们的岛……
Sonetto: I also read that the Nukutai almost never leave their homeland. Why are they here?

努库泰澳人显然听见了这儿的嘀嘀咕咕。
Their hushed conversation clearly meets the ears of the nearby Nukutai.

一个年轻的身影从人群中蹿了出来，气鼓鼓地站在十四行诗的面前。
One young boy strides forward, his chest puffed up in indignation.

托阿：努库泰澳人绝对不会抛弃自己的家园！
Toa: The Nukutai will never abandon our homeland!

托阿：等、等到了新时代，那些被淹没的海岛都会回来的！
Toa: J-Just wait. We'll find our way back when the new era comes!

维尔汀：新的时代……
Vertin: The new era ...

浸泡在陌生口音中的词汇令人耳熟。
Though in a foreign accent, these words sound all too familiar.

塞洛尼：托阿，别再解释了——图图石子告诫过我们，不要与陌生人有过多的交流。
Selone: Toa, that's enough. Tutu told us not to talk with outsiders.

另一个同样稚嫩的身影挡在了托阿的面前。
An equally young girl stands protectively in front of the boy.

托阿：可……我、我什么也没说错！
Toa: But, someone had to tell them the truth!

十四行诗：抱歉，我并不是想指责你们。我只是……
Sonetto: I apologize. I didn't mean to accuse you of anything. I was just curious.

托阿：别再假惺惺了——来自外面的家伙！
Toa: Well, next time keep your mouth shut. What could you possibly know about the Nukutai?

无端的冲突似乎一触即发。
The boy looks about ready to explode.

尚在远处寒暄的忙碌乐手匆匆赶来。
Noticing the outburst, Barcarola breaks away from the other guests and hurries over.

芭卡洛儿：客人们，请冷静下来。
Barcarola: Please, everyone, no fighting.

芭卡洛儿：我是“自由海风号”的乐队负责人，如果你们有任何感到不适的地方，请及时与我交流。
Barcarola: I'm Barcarola, the musical director. Is there anything I can help you with? I'll do all I can to ensure everyone has a pleasant experience.

在抵达目的地前，一阵清脆的贝壳碰撞声便挡住了芭卡洛儿的脚步。
Before she can reach them, a crisp collision of shells stops Barcarola in her tracks.

芭卡洛儿：……！
Barcarola: ...!

图图石子：你们想做什么——！
Fatutu: What's going on? What do you want?

稚嫩的话语毫不遮掩自己的敌意。
Her voice holds no restraint in its hostility.

塞洛尼：……图图石子！
Selone: Tutu!

图图石子：塞洛尼、托阿，小心些，外面的人比我们想象得还要可怕的多呢！
Fatutu: Selone, Toa, stay back. These outsiders could be dangerous.

芭卡洛儿：什……么？难道你不认识我吗？
Barcarola: Dangerous? Have you never heard of me before?

图图石子仔细打量着眼前一脸难以置信的少女，审视着对方身侧的古怪木匣。
Fatutu looks Barcarola over, eyeing the peculiar wooden contraption by her side.

图图石子：……
Fatutu: ...

她努力压抑住对眼前古怪乐器的好奇心，目光又重新坚定起来。
Suppressing her curiosity about this unique object, she steadies her gaze once more.

图图石子：不管你们是什么奇怪的家伙，请不要再靠近我们了。
Fatutu: Whoever you are, I ask that you leave us in peace.

芭卡洛儿：我……你……
Barcarola: I ... You ...

从未享受过如此待遇的芭卡洛儿一时语塞，对方的发言显然远远偏离了自己的预想。
Barcarola is lost for words. Clearly, her status as a musical star has made her unaccustomed to such remarks.

毫不顾及眼前几乎面红耳赤的少女，努库泰澳人又把自己藏进了角落里。
Ignoring the now flushed girl before her, Fatutu and the other Nukutai retreat back to their corner.

塞洛尼：还好你及时回来了，图图石子，要不然，我都不知道该怎么办才好了……
Selone: Tutu, thank the tides you came! I wasn't sure what to do.

托阿：哼！为了重建家园，我们不正是要加入格蕾丝女士的组织吗？大不了——
Toa: Hmph. So are we going to take Ms. Grace's offer or not? She promised it would bring our islands back.

少年露出一个恶狠狠的眼神。
Toa casts a fierce glare at Fatutu.

图图石子：托阿，别总是把这些事儿挂在嘴边，这样只会让外面的家伙对我们更加警惕……
Fatutu: Enough, Toa! These outsiders don't need to know why we're here. And stop mentioning Ms. Grace. Could draw unwanted attention.

托阿：难道你不想回到努库泰澳吗——？
Toa: But what's there to hide? There's no shame in wanting our home back.

托阿：如果我们不加入格蕾丝女士的复仇大业，我们可就永远没法回归家园了！
Toa: If we don't stand with Ms. Grace, we'll lose Nukutaeao forever!

图图石子：我比任何人都更希望回到那儿……我想念麦黎，我想念岛上的红珊瑚，想念那儿的独木舟赛……
Fatutu: I want to go home too, probably more than anyone! I already miss Meli's red coral reefs, blue sea, and canoe races.

图图石子：相信我，一切都会好起来的，托阿。等回到努库泰澳，咱们还可以继续当邻居，采摘面包果和椰树花，除了复仇，我们眼下还有很多的事儿可以做。
Fatutu: We'll get through this, Toa. I promise we'll be neighbors again, picking breadfruit and coconut flowers together. But before we accept Ms. Grace's offer, there's a few things that need to be made clear.

图图石子：更重要的是，这些事都与船上的其他人无关，不是么？
Fatutu: And remember, none of these passengers are to blame for what happened to our home, okay?

塞洛尼：可……格蕾丝女士不是这么说的。
Selone: But Ms. Grace has offered us a way home.

塞洛尼：那美好的时代有永恒的时间，无损的昔日家园……是努库泰澳人真正的应许之地……
Selone: We'll have our islands back, just as they were. Our promised land.

图图石子：我们一定会回家的，塞洛尼，我向你们保证。
Fatutu: We will go home, Selone. Trust me.

图图石子：只是、只是……在这之前，我们得先弄明白更多的事。
Fatutu: I just need to figure out a few things first.

图图石子：关于格蕾丝女士所说的一切。
Fatutu: Starting with this "wonderful new era" she keeps talking about.

淑女格蕾丝：……
Ms. Grace: ...

淑女格蕾丝：您看上去很焦急，卡穆塔先生。
Ms. Grace: You seem a little on edge, Chief Kamuta.

一个壮硕的身影在不大的房间里来回踱步。
Kamuta is pacing back and forth in the cabin.

卡穆塔：格蕾丝女士，我们什么时候才能抵达您承诺的新时代？
Kamuta: Ms. Grace, how much longer do we have to wait for this new era to come?

卡穆塔：您知道的，我们的许多族人几乎从未离开过努库泰澳，他们的身体状况很差，已经有不少人出现晕船、高烧等问题了……像这样海上漂流的日子显然让人难以承受。
Kamuta: Many of our people have never left Nukutaeao before. We're struggling to adjust. Some have even fallen sick. We can't stay adrift on the sea like this much longer.

卡穆塔：不少人都郁郁寡欢，我甚至已经能从他们的“象形贝壳”看到那些阴郁扭曲的裂纹了……
Kamuta: Our spirits are low. The shells of some of my people have begun to crack.

他埋下头去，一串串纹理细腻的规整贝壳散发着微光，在手中微微发烫。
He lowers his head to the faintly glowing shells in his palm. They radiate warmth.

卡穆塔：并非所有人都身强力壮，能挺过船上这段难熬的日子……请帮帮我们，格蕾丝女士。
Kamuta: Not everyone is strong enough to endure this journey. Please, Ms. Grace. You have to help us.

淑女格蕾丝：我很遗憾得知这一切。
Ms. Grace: While it pains me to hear this ...

淑女格蕾丝：“自由海风号”上仍有不少尚未使用的区域，我们可以提供遗体收殓场地。当然，也包括遗物保管等服务……
Ms. Grace: The journey must go on. You have nowhere to return to, after all. We still have some space below deck. You can use it to store your people's bodies should they die.

她的目光始终停留在那些晶莹的贝壳上。
Her gaze remains fixed on the crystalline shells in Kamuta's hand.

卡穆塔：不……这些并不是我们真正需要的……
Kamuta: That's not exactly what we're asking for.

卡穆塔：我恳求您，愿您能给予我们新的指引……正如您预言麦黎的沉没那般。
Kamuta: Please, show us another way. Help us like you did when you foresaw the destruction of Meli. I beg of you.

格蕾丝侧过头来，饶有兴趣地打量着眼前这副痛苦的面容。
Grace tilts her head, a glimmer of intrigue on her face as she observes the pained expression on Kamuta's face.

淑女格蕾丝：我早已给过你们方向了，不是么？
Ms. Grace: I've already shown you a way, haven't I?

卡穆塔：——！
Kamuta: ...!

胸膛传来一阵突兀的压迫感，某种黏稠的液体悄然攀上了他的肌肤。
A sudden pressure swells in his chest as a sticky black liquid silently drips onto his skin.

卡穆塔：您说的是……加入重塑？
Kamuta: You mean joining the Manus?

卡穆塔：……
Kamuta: ...

卡穆塔：努库泰澳人向来厌恶纷争，我们藏身于无人知晓的岛屿，几乎不在外界露面……
Kamuta: But the Nukutai haven't had a conflict with anyone for centuries. That's why we hid ourselves away from the world.

卡穆塔：……我很难说服其他族人们。
Kamuta: Difficult to persuade my people to do this.

卡穆塔：我们只是希望族人的魂灵与躯体回到我们熟悉的故土，希望能有一处不被打扰的家园……
Kamuta: All we want is for our people to return to familiar soil, to feel our spirits at home. Nothing more.

淑女格蕾丝：麦黎已经被淹没了。
Ms. Grace: But Meli is already gone.

卡穆塔：那是一场天灾……我们无法责怪任何人……
Kamuta: Yes, but that doesn't mean we should take revenge on the outside world. It was an act of the sea itself. It would be unjust to blame anyone for it.

淑女格蕾丝：被划为鱼雷试验场的马拉尼亚环礁和维布那也是么？
Ms. Grace: What about the torpedo test sites designated over Malaga and Vaipuna? Aren't there people who should answer for that?

卡穆塔：他们……只是无意的……
Kamuta: It was probably just a mistake.

卡穆塔：那片海域是努库泰澳的外围区域，几乎没人到那儿捕鱼……外面的人根本没有意识到努库泰澳人的存在。
Kamuta: The area they chose was far from the main islands of Nukutaeao, and hardly anyone fishes there. They may not have realized that my people lived there.

淑女格蕾丝：倾倒的污水、泄露的油船……那些因此死去的可怜鱼群，它们也就该如此么？
Ms. Grace: And the oil spill? The wastewater discharge? Were all those fish killed by pollution also just an "act of the sea"?

卡穆塔：我们……不想与任何人为敌。
Kamuta: I ... Please ... We're not looking for conflict.

淑女格蕾丝：当然，他们在无声无息间摧毁了你们赖以生存的一切——
Ms. Grace: Of course you're not. After all, they've only stolen everything you've ever held dear ...

她的声突兀地放低了，却像是一片挠人心肝的羽毛。
Her voice drops abruptly, her next words delivered with the lightness of a feather.

淑女格蕾丝：尽管他们对努库泰澳一无所知。
Ms. Grace: ... and arrogantly assumed every inch of this planet is theirs to exploit.

卡穆塔：……
Kamuta: ...

淑女格蕾丝：战争从来不会停下，不论你们身处何地……努库泰澳人。
Ms. Grace: War is inevitable, whether you want it or not, Nukutai.

那副面具被轻轻推上前来，连上面泛着的冷光都清晰可见了。
She gently pushes the mask forward. Its dark presence is unavoidable.

淑女格蕾丝：时间站在我们这边，卡穆塔先生。
Ms. Grace: But if you join us, you will have an invaluable ally: time.

格蕾丝瞥了瞥手中的怀表，又轻飘飘将它放进了口袋。
Grace glances at her pocket watch before slipping it lightly into her pocket.

淑女格蕾丝：但它的慷慨可不会持续太久。
Ms. Grace: The window is closing.

淑女格蕾丝：“大筛选”快要开始了。
Ms. Grace: The sifting is about to begin.

胸前的“象形贝壳”滚烫如火，那些扭曲而狰狞的象形文字热切地攀附上来。

像是在催促，又像是在预言。
Both a prompt and a prophecy.

卡穆塔：…………
Kamuta: ...

胸前的“象形贝壳”滚烫如火，那些扭曲而狰狞的象形文字热切地攀附上来。
The Spirit Shells around Kamuta's neck burn. They cling to his chest as they twist with ferocity.

卡穆塔：……这是复仇么？
Kamuta: Has it really come to this? To revenge?

他猛然抬起头来，正对上桌上那副张牙舞爪的冰冷面具。
His eyes flash up to the jagged mask on the table.

狰狞的触须向四周无规则地延伸着，像是一种无言的引诱。
Dark tendrils extend from it, groping at the air in a silent invitation.

几乎要灼伤他胸口的“象形贝壳”。
His Spirit Shells are almost scorching.

淑女格蕾丝：不，这是一场拯救。
Ms. Grace: Oh no, it's quite the opposite. It's salvation.

LEE-07 音乐或亮光 / Music or Light

大厅里挤满了人，却罕见地没有演奏任何音乐。
The main hall is packed with people, yet there is no music to be heard. A peculiar scene indeed.

好在客人们并不因此感到无聊，别的舞台上可找不到这样一场精彩的情景剧。
Fortunately, the guests don't seem to mind. There is no stage in the world that offers a performance like this one.

芭卡洛儿：星锑小姐，你应该明白，一首完美的协奏曲需要多么精妙的排布、天才的想法和精湛的演奏技巧——
Barcarola: Ms. Regulus, as I'm sure you understand, there's a great deal of effort involved in creating a concerto, from the initial spark of inspiration to the careful arrangement of the music to the skill required to play it.

芭卡洛儿：这些音乐能够诞生，本身已经是最伟大的奇迹了！
Barcarola: The fact that any concerto has ever been performed at all is nothing short of a miracle!

芭卡洛儿的语气相当郑重，像是一曲渐强的行进乐。
Barcarola's tone is solemn, like a steadily intensifying march.

芭卡洛儿：身为乐队负责人，我必须选择合适的曲目，并将它演绎给每一位听众。
Barcarola: As musical director, it is my duty to select the perfect repertoire to bring delight to every listener.

芭卡洛儿：而“自由海风号”尊贵的客人，需要做的应该是端坐在座位上，享用热腾腾的苹果派，安静地欣赏音乐。
Barcarola: Then, the esteemed passengers of the "Free Breeze" can enjoy their dessert and wine with the finest musical accompaniment.

星锑：噢不——坐在座位上听曲子是最无聊透顶的事儿了！
Regulus: Oh, you can't be serious. Where's the fun in just sitting there and listening?

星锑：我向你保证，这儿的客人们一定听腻了那些懒洋洋的爵士、黏糊糊的钢琴曲，或者滋滋冒烟的电子乐！
Regulus: I promise you, this lot have had more than enough lazy jazz and swooning piano to last a lifetime!

星锑：为了让这趟旅程成为20世纪末最伟大的一次航行，我们必须要做出改变！
Regulus: We need to shake things up—make this voyage the greatest of the century!

星锑：比如，一场来自60年代的摇滚运动！
Regulus: How about some '60s rock?

星锑：而最最最具先见之明的前船长星锑恰巧准备了一台最棒的唱片机～
Regulus: And wouldn't you know it? This visionary former captain has a record player right here with her!

一沓唱片被高高扬起。
She holds a stack of records high in the air.

星锑：朋友们，欢呼起来！
Regulus: Alright, people! Let me hear you cheer!

星锑：音乐不需要条条框框，它能在任何时候、任何地方感染每一个人！
Regulus: Music is freedom! It should stir the soul, anytime, anywhere!

芭卡洛儿：嘿——放下它，星锑，我才是这儿的乐手！
Barcarola: Stop, Regulus! I'm the musician here, not you!

难得一见的通红映在芭卡洛儿的脸上。
Barcarola's cheeks flush red.

客人们饶有兴趣地为台上的闹剧鼓掌，一顶小巧的珊瑚花编帽不着痕迹地藏在当中。
The audience claps, amused by the antics on stage. A small flower-adorned girl sits discreetly among them.

图图石子：外面的世界很闹腾，可……
Fatutu: These outsiders seem so full of life.

图图石子：她们一点儿也不像格蕾丝女士说的那样“充斥着仇恨与战火”呀……
Fatutu: They're nothing like what Ms. Grace described, "full of hatred and hostility."

图图石子仍然警惕地望着台上，目光始终不曾挪开分毫。
Fatutu remains alert, her eyes fixed on the stage.

芭卡洛儿：这儿是我的舞台……如、如果你实在想要播放摇滚乐，你也可以向船长申请，成为一名优秀的游轮乐手！
Barcarola: This is my performance! If you really must share your music with us, then, perhaps you should go to the captain and apply to be a cruise musician like me!

星锑：向你致敬，芭卡洛儿小姐。
Regulus: With all due respect, Ms. Barcarola.

星锑：但——
Regulus: The point I'm trying to make ...

星锑：电台骑师知道客人们真正想听到的是什么～
Regulus: ... is that only a DJ knows what the crowd really wants!

罔顾惊声冲上前来的白天鹅，狡猾的小狮子早已按下了唱片机的播放键。
Before Barcarola can protest anymore, the cunning little lion presses the play button on the record player.

“啪嗒——”

四周的灯光突兀地暗了下去，不着调的电台骑师从未意识到自己的唱片机还有如此功效。
In a moment, all the lights on the ship have gone out. Regulus had no idea her record player could produce such effects.

星锑：……？
Regulus: Huh?

星锑：难道我真是神秘学天才？
Regulus: Did I just shoot lightning bolts from my fingertips?

芭卡洛儿：当然不是！
Barcarola: Of course not!

芭卡洛儿终于夺回了麦克风的掌控权，但此刻客人们显然面临着更严重的问题。
Barcarola finally manages to wrest the microphone from Regulus's hand, but a far more pressing issue than the content of the concert now faces them.

漆黑一片的船舱中，呼喊与抱怨声此起彼伏。
Amid the darkness, discontent quickly arises.

客人Ⅰ：该死的，谁踩了我的高档皮鞋？！
Guest I: Goddamn! Who's stepping on my brand-new leather shoes?!

客人Ⅰ：你们就不能小心点儿么？
Guest I: Will you please watch yourself?!

客人Ⅱ：这正是我要说的话——你这个慌慌张张的笨家伙，你扯着我的夹克衫扣带了！
Guest II: I was just about to say the same thing! Let go of my jacket, you moron!

客人Ⅲ：闭嘴，伙计们！别在这儿吵吵嚷嚷的，我什么也听不清了！
Guest III: Could you all keep it down? I'm going deaf here!

客人Ⅲ：噢，天呐——我的白葡萄酒和帕玛尔干酪！
Guest III: Oh, no! My wine! And the cheese platter!

争吵声几乎塞满了耳膜。
The clamor of irritated voices quickly fills the space.

芭卡洛儿：这样下去很可能会发生更大的事故……不行，有我在的航程决不能有如此灾难！
Barcarola: This could turn to total chaos before long. No, I can't let that happen!

芭卡洛儿：我得赶紧去电闸那儿看看。
Barcarola: I must go check on the master switch.

芭卡洛儿摸黑挤进人群，努力寻找去往电力供应室的通路。
Barcarola pushes through the crowd as she carves a path to the power room.

星锑：嘿，芭卡洛儿小姐！
Regulus: Hey! Ms. Barcarola!

芭卡洛儿：唔——别再挤过来了，伊丽莎白女士。
Barcarola: Uh. Please let me through, Ms. Elisabeth.

遗憾的是，在如此漆黑的环境中，人们很难分辨出一颗海上明珠。
Unfortunately, the guests can't tell a musician from a mechanic through the darkness.

星锑：芭卡洛儿，你打算去哪儿——！
Regulus: Barcarola! Where are you going?!

星锑：本海盗很乐意为你提供帮助。
Regulus: Let me give you a hand!

星锑：往这儿来——芭卡洛儿～我找到一个空隙！
Regulus: Come on! There aren't as many of them this way!

芭卡洛儿：真不可思议……难道你真有什么从混乱中逃脱的天赋吗？
Barcarola: Unbelievable. It's like you're an escape artist or something!

星锑：咳、我拒绝回答这一问题。
Regulus: Uh. I'll take that as a compliment.

芭卡洛儿：总而言之……感谢你的帮忙，星锑小姐！
Barcarola: It is a compliment! Thank you so much, Ms. Regulus.

一条勉强可以通行的前路显露了出来，不顾礼仪的乐手奋力地向前挤去。
A narrow path appears, and Barcarola unceremoniously pushes forward with all her might.

但意外总是源源不断。
But it seems the surprises for today are far from coming to an end.

芭卡洛儿：啊——
Barcarola: Ah!

？？？：——！
???: ...!

一阵微弱的亮光闪过芭卡洛儿的视野，随后迅速砸到了地上。
A faint light flickers across Barcarola's vision, then quickly falls to the ground.

芭卡洛儿：……这是？
Barcarola: What was that?

半截粗糙的树皮被扭成了灯罩的造型，一朵形如罗盘的草根在当中燃烧着，火光微弱却慷慨地照亮了四周的角落。
A piece of rough bark twisted into the shape of a lampshade, with a compass-like root burning warmly inside, shines through the darkness.

塞洛尼：图图石子……你没事吧？
Selone: Tutu. Are you okay?

图图石子：没关系——我们的“罗盘灼灼”没摔坏吧？
Fatutu: I'm fine. How's the Sea Mother's Eye?

塞洛尼：当然，这可是努库泰澳人最骄傲的手艺之一！
Selone: Solid as ever, of course. It takes more than a few knocks to damage Nukutai craftsmanship!

托阿：哼，我早就说过，我们不应该靠近这些粗鲁的家伙……
Toa: *sneer* I knew getting too close to those oafs would bring trouble.

芭卡洛儿：粗鲁……家伙……
Barcarola: Oafs?

芭卡洛儿：——等等，你说的该不会是我吧！
Barcarola: Are you calling me stupid?!

在气氛朝着更难以预料的局面演变前，那盏造型古怪的灯具被拾了起来。
Before the situation can escalate any further, Barcarola picks up the oddly shaped lamp.

一团微弱的火光照亮了芭卡洛儿的视野。
She is quickly basked in its glow.

芭卡洛儿：这是……？
Barcarola: What's this?

托阿：粗鲁的笨家伙，你当然没见过这个！
Toa: Hah! What did I say? Of course you have no idea what this is.

图图石子：我们收集棕榈树的树皮，将它们打磨成一个个椰子壳大小的灯罩。接着，我们会将油脂浸泡过的罗盘草系在灯罩里……
Fatutu: We form palm bark into lampshades about the size of a coconut, then tie fat-soaked compass grass inside.

图图石子：每一位努库泰澳人都擅长制作“罗盘灼灼”。
Fatutu: We call it Sea Mother's Eye. Every Nukutai knows how to make one.

托阿：哼，它可比外面这些滋滋作响的玻璃泡可靠多了！
Toa: They're way better than those noisy, buzzing lightbulbs!

托阿：等等，图图石子！我们干嘛要告诉她这些……
Toa: Wait, why are we even telling her this?

图图石子：嘘——
Fatutu: Shh.

更急切的话语尚未从口中蹦出，图图石子赶忙把托阿扯到一边。
Before he can say another word, Fatutu hastily pulls Toa aside.

图图石子：这当然是为了让外面的家伙放松警惕。
Fatutu: We need to lower their guard.

托阿：……嗯？
Toa: Huh?

几簇狐疑的目光盯住了图图石子。
Toa eyes Fatutu suspiciously.

图图石子：这是为了骗取她们的信任。
Fatutu: So that we can earn their trust.

图图石子：如果对可能的敌人一无所知，我们又怎么能帮助格蕾丝船长，怎么能完成重建家园的使命呢？
Fatutu: If we don't understand our enemies, how can we help Ms. Grace with her mission and rebuild our home?

托阿：噢……
Toa: Oh ...

图图石子：更何况，那些笨家伙们叽里呱啦的动静会影响到族人们的休息！
Fatutu: Besides, we can't just leave them to shout and run around! It'll disturb our people's rest!

狐疑目光的源头终于松了口气。
Toa finally breathes a sigh of relief.

图图石子：相信我——过不了多久，那个单纯的家伙就会跑来找我们道谢。
Fatutu: Trust me. That girl will thank us for this later.

图图石子：到时候，她就会把自己知道的一切都统统告诉我们啦～
Fatutu: And then, we can get all the information we need from her!

托阿：所以我们应该制作更多的“罗盘灼灼”，将它们分发给更多的笨家伙们！
Toa: Then, we should make more Sea Mother's Eyes and hand them out to the outsiders!

图图石子：……没错。
Fatutu: Now you've got it.

塞洛尼：天呐，图图石子，你真聪明……怪不得长老们都愿意听你的主意呢～
Selone: By the waves, Tutu, you really are clever! No wonder the elders always listen to you.

备受褒奖的图图石子转过身去，悄悄捏紧了衣角。
Despite this praise, Fatutu turns away, a quiet look of doubt on her face.

图图石子：我……
Fatutu: I ...

图图石子：这样是对的吗？
Fatutu: Is this really the right thing to do?

无论如何，窸窣的、摩擦树皮的声响总算是传递开来了。
Regardless, the sound of bark scraping grows as her people get to work.

一盏盏“罗盘灼灼”亮了起来。
One by one, the Sea Mother's Eyes light up.

它经由一双双或粗糙或柔嫩的手，映出红褐色的肌肤、亚麻色的瞳仁与棕黄色的头发。
They are passed through rough and soft hands alike, illuminating bronze skin, flax-colored irises, and chestnut hair.

微弱的光芒顺着人流向四周飘散，它掩去吵嚷的人声，盖过张皇失措的呼喊，将素不相识的人们牵引在一起。
As the warm lights make their way through the crowd, the clamor subsides. No more panicked shouts, no more arguments, only a unique harmony.

船员Ⅰ：这个小家伙的样子可真别致，让我想起了还在渔船上的日子……那会儿我总期待着返航时那座同样怪模怪样的灯塔。
Crew Member I: What peculiar little things. Reminds me of my days on the fishing boat. I always loved spotting the lighthouse on our way back. These look just like it.

客人Ⅰ：瞧瞧这手艺，工厂里那些笨头笨脑的铁疙瘩可压不出这样的弧线～
Guest I: The craftsmanship is remarkable. You'd be hard-pressed to find something of this standard in a factory these days.

船员Ⅱ：它像极了我祖母的手笔，她总在我小时候和我一起编织各种有趣的小玩意儿！
Crew Member II: They remind me of the things my grandma and I used to make when I was little.

船员Ⅱ：哈哈～你们绝对想不到防风草做成的口哨——！
Crew Member II: Haha, she could even carve a whistle out of a parsnip!

图图石子：……
Fatutu: ...

图图石子：传递食物与火光，分享有意思的事儿……这和我们的篝火大会有什么不同呢？
Fatutu: They're sharing food and stories, just like we do on bonfire nights.

图图石子偷偷瞥了眼身边的努库泰澳同胞，回忆与向往写满了许多人的脸庞。
Fatutu glances at her fellow Nukutai. Relived memories and longing are etched into their faces.

图图石子：格蕾丝女士，我越来越不明白了……
Fatutu: I'm getting more and more confused by Ms. Grace's words.

狼狈的客人们三三两两地倚靠在一起，点亮了四周的微光。
The guests lean on one another, chatting happily under the warm glow of the lamps.

客人Ⅱ：芭卡洛儿小姐……
Guest II: Ms. Barcarola.

怯生生的童稚话语在游轮乐手的耳畔响起。
The timid voice of a child reaches Barcarola's ears.

客人Ⅱ：我……我想家了……
Guest II: I ... I wanna go home.

芭卡洛儿：……
Barcarola: ...

眼前的景象一片狼藉，这儿当然不是一个合适的交响乐演奏场合。
The scene before her is a mess. This is certainly no time for a symphony performance.

身穿红蓝色波点裙的摇滚少女在人群中摇晃着脑袋。
Among the crowd, she sees Regulus shaking her head.

芭卡洛儿：这也是成为音乐大师的必经之路吗？
Barcarola: Is this one of the changes I must make to truly embrace music?

芭卡洛儿：♪——
Barcarola: ♪ ...

一个略显颤抖的音符从巨大的匣子里飘荡而出。
A single note drifts from her Crackling Box.

紧接着，是更加欢乐、热闹的迥异音色。
Then, a harmonious melody of joyful, lively, and contrasting sounds.

星锑：哇噢噢噢——！
Regulus: Woah!!

在扑闪扑闪的火光中，人们不约而同地打起了拍子。
Their joy illuminated by the lamps, the guests start to clap along.

通讯员：以下是来自格蕾丝船长的紧急通报——
Broadcast: Attention, passengers!

通讯员：我们已经确认“自由海风号”当前的停电状况。经排查，该问题是由于底部货舱漏液导致的保险丝熔断，现已解决。
Broadcast: The "Free Breeze" is currently experiencing a power outage due to a fuse blown by a cargo leak in the lower deck. We ask that everyone remain calm.

通讯员：为表歉意，我们将向全船乘客发放不限量的免费冰淇淋。
Broadcast: We sincerely apologize for the inconvenience. To make your wait more comfortable, we'll be offering unlimited ice cream shortly.

通讯员：另外，我们即将驶入巨齿飞鳐的聚集区，路程中很有可能会出现颠簸情况，并产生不可避免的驱逐噪音。
Broadcast: Additionally, since we're approaching the habitat of the Serres, we're expecting an increase in turbulence and noise as we work to ward them off.

通讯员：烦请各位谅解。
Broadcast: We appreciate your understanding.

通讯员：……
Broadcast: ...

船舱又明亮了起来，客人们互相告别，那些小巧的提灯仍被紧握在一双双手中。
The hall brightens again, and the guests bid one another farewell, the lamps still tightly held in their hands.

芭卡洛儿长舒了口气，海盗得意洋洋地凑近了她。
Barcarola exhales deeply as Regulus approaches her, a smug look on her face.

星锑：嘿，朋友，我说的没错吧～
Regulus: See? What did I tell you?

星锑：在任何时候，我们都应该来点儿音乐！
Regulus: Music works wonders, anytime, anywhere!

芭卡洛儿：你是对的，星锑小姐。
Barcarola: You were right, Ms. Regulus.

星锑：那作为报酬，你是不是应该……
Regulus: You owe me one now. So, how about a little reciprocity?

狡诈的海盗搓了搓手指。
She rubs her fingers together mischievously.

星锑：比如说，一场盛大的海上摇滚革命——！
Regulus: Say, letting me have a rock session on the ship?

芭卡洛儿：你只是打算宣传你的摇滚乐，而不会搞出什么新的乱子？
Barcarola: Do you promise you won't cause any trouble?

星锑：当然～
Regulus: Cross my heart!

芭卡洛儿：好吧，我可以答应你，但是——
Barcarola: Alright, you can do it. But—

兴奋的海盗根本不在乎多余的要求，远远抛下一句热情的提醒便欢呼而去。
Permission granted, Regulus doesn't wait to hear her extra condition. She's already dashed off, speaking as she goes.

星锑：别忘了那位提灯小姐的帮助～
Regulus: Don't forget to thank the girl who made the lamp!

芭卡洛儿：……
Barcarola: ...

芭卡洛儿：哼……一位成熟的乐手才不需要这种简单的提醒，那是我的下一个目的地！
Barcarola: As if I need you to remind me! I'll have you know I was just about to head over to her.

芭卡洛儿步伐轻快地迈向阴影中的一角，努库泰澳的朋友们熟悉的隐秘角落。
Barcarola gently paces over to the darkened corner that has become the gathering place of the Nukutai.

托阿：——！
Toa: ...!

托阿：图图石子说的一点儿也没错，这位单纯的女士果然过来了！
Toa: Tutu was right! The stupid girl's back!

塞洛尼：嘘……！
Selone: Shh!

芭卡洛儿：……？
Barcarola: ...?

芭卡洛儿：事先声明，我绝不接受你们给我贴上“粗鲁”、“笨家伙”的标签。
Barcarola: I must say I don't appreciate being called an "oaf" or "stupid."

芭卡洛儿：但我发自内心地为你们的勇敢援助表示真诚的感谢。
Barcarola: But I would like to thank you for your help back there.

托阿：——什么？
Toa: What?

芭卡洛儿：我代表全体船员向你们致敬。
Barcarola: On behalf of the whole crew, you have our respect.

托阿：等等……我们该怎么办？！
Toa: Oh. Uh, what do we do now?

托阿：图图石子可没说过外面的人会这么热情呀……
Toa: Tutu never said they'd be so friendly.

手足无措的人们面面相觑。
The bewildered islanders exchange glances.

塞洛尼：图图石子……
Selone: Tutu?

塞洛尼：嗯……图图石子去哪儿了？
Selone: Where did she go?

LEE-08 老调子 / An Old Song at Sea

图图石子：我了解了更多关于外面的事，可为什么……
Fatutu: I've learned so much about the outside world since I boarded this ship, so ...

图图石子：脑袋里的问题一点儿都没有减少呢？
Fatutu: Why do I feel even more confused?

图图石子：……
Fatutu: ...

图图石子：努库泰澳的大家当然是好人。
Fatutu: I trust my people. They're good and kind, and they've never lied to me.

图图石子：我们有最了不起的“象形贝壳”——麦黎的舞蹈与合唱将滋养它们的外壳，纯粹而高涨的情感能够为它们晕染出最优美的纹理。
Fatutu: You just have to look at their Spirit Shells to see it. The songs and dances of Meli nourish the Shells, and the purity of my people's souls color their surface in the most beautiful patterns.

图图石子：格蕾丝女士呢？
Fatutu: And Ms. Grace, she's been good to us, too.

图图石子：……
Fatutu: ...

图图石子：她预言了麦黎的淹没，从洪水与风暴中拯救了我们，她向我们揭露世界的真相……
Fatutu: She warned us about the destruction of Meli, saving us from the flood. And she showed us the world as it really is.

图图石子：她，希望我们加入重塑之手的复仇计划。
Fatutu: She even wants us to be part of her plan.

图图石子：……
Fatutu: ...

图图石子：祖辈们留下的贝壳告诉我们，努库泰澳外面的世界有多么可怕，有信奉黑暗的邪恶女巫，有盘踞在海上的纳卡鲁瓦蛇，有轰隆隆的怪物与巨鸟。
Fatutu: Our ancestral shells have also told us how terrible the world outside is—that it's a place with sanguma witches, Nakarua serpents, and all kinds of other beasts.

图图石子：可……
Fatutu: But ...

舷窗里的一幕幕倒映在她的眼中。
Those scenes replay again and again in her mind.

寻常的寒暄，温暖的笑容，一盏盏昏黄的灯，向她伸出的手。
The casual conversations, the warm smiles, and the glowing lamps in their hands.

图图石子：外面的人们……与努库泰澳的大家，真的有什么不可逾越的差别么？
Fatutu: But now I'm here, on this ship full of outsiders, and I feel that they're just like us.

过往与当下在恍惚中重叠在一起，令人耳晕目眩。
Past and present blur together as Fatutu searches her memories, leaving her dizzy and overwhelmed.

女孩在不知名的角落里愣神，一声嗓音浑厚的呼唤惊醒了她。
In her daze, she has wandered into another part of the ship. It isn't until a voice snaps her out of her thoughts that she realizes where she is.

舵手伊萨姆：嘿！小姑娘，你在做什么呢？
Helmsman Esam: Hello, young lady! What are you doing out here all by yourself?

舵手伊萨姆：别在外头站着啦，到这儿来～
Helmsman Esam: Don't just stand there. Come on in!

图图石子：——！
Fatutu: Hmm?

图图石子：我……抱歉，我有点走神了。
Fatutu: Sorry, I didn't even realize where I was going.

在眼前不断打着晃的蓝色水手帽惊醒了她。
One helmsman gives her a hearty pat on the shoulder.

舵手老查理：没什么好抱歉的，小客人。
Helmsman Charlie: No need to apologize, my dear.

舵手老查理：要不是你，咱们可就得一直在这儿孤零零地呆到下一个港口了。
Helmsman Charlie: You're more than welcome. You've saved us old folks from sitting here in silence till we reach shore.

舵手乔瓦尼：哈哈～别见怪，老查理总算逮住了一个吹嘘自己的好机会。
Helmsman Giovanni: Haha! Charlie's just happy to have someone new to tell his stories to!

舵手老查理：伊萨姆，难道你不想让客人看看你是如何驱赶那些热情过剩的巨齿飞鳐吗？
Helmsman Charlie: I bet Esam will jump at the chance to show off how he drives off those Serres, too.

图图石子：巨齿飞鳐，是那些热衷与海船搏击，给水手们捣乱的坏家伙——？！
Fatutu: Serres? I've heard they're a real headache for passing ships.

图图石子：我还从来没见过任何一只真正的巨齿飞鳐呢……
Fatutu: But I've never seen one with my own eyes.

图图石子好奇地望向窗外。
Fatutu curiously peers out the window.

某种古怪而熟悉的低吟呜呜作响。
A strange yet familiar hum fills the air.

巨齿飞鳐：#&呜@/——！
Serres: *roar*

舵手老查理：瞧瞧，咱们可是碰上了一位见多识广的小姑娘啦～
Helmsman Charlie: Well, well, it seems this young lady knows a thing or two about the sea!

舵手伊萨姆：那这位幸运的客人，小海怪专家——你愿意帮我们搭把手吗？
Helmsman Esam: How about you give us a hand, eh?

图图石子：我……
Fatutu: I ...

一双粗糙的手伸到了她的面前。
He extends a rough hand to her.

图图石子慌忙退了两步，可那双手却毫不动摇，仍然热情地停在她的眼前。
Fatutu takes a hasty step back, but the hand remains warmly held out before her.

那是一双令人眼熟而亲切的手，图图石子见过无数类似的老茧，在佩纽奶奶、塔雷克叔叔、纳塔诺爷爷以及更多努库泰澳人的手上。
She has seen many hands like his before. Callused, working hands, like those of Grandma Penu, Uncle Tarek, Grandpa Natano, and many of the other Nukutai. There's something comforting in its familiarity.

图图石子：……我可以么？
Fatutu: Me? I'm not sure I know how to ...

舵手老查理：放心吧，这一点儿也不难～
Helmsman Charlie: Don't worry. It's almost too easy!

舵手乔瓦尼：巨齿飞鳐畏惧噪音，而咱们的“自由海风号”，最不缺的就是扩音喇叭！
Helmsman Giovanni: These Serres are afraid of loud noises, and the "Free Breeze" has plenty of speakers on board!

舵手乔瓦尼：更何况，我们的大海母亲会保佑我们的。
Helmsman Giovanni: The sea is with us today.

舵手伊萨姆：当然，还有比咱们更虔诚的子民吗？
Helmsman Esam: Of course it is! For how long we've sailed its waves, why wouldn't it be?

水手们互相挤眉弄眼，一种无言的亲切感从勾肩搭背的呼喊中传递了出来。
The helmsmen exchange a few winks and shoulder pats. There is a clear camaraderie between them.

他们摩拳擦掌，像是在筹备一场即将到来的演出。
They roll up their sleeves as they prepare for their performance.

舵手伊萨姆：准备好，伙计们！
Helmsman Esam: Get ready, folks! Port the helm!

满舵——！

舵手伊萨姆：改变航向至二七零度，右满舵。
Helmsman Esam: Course 270, hard starboard!

舵手伊萨姆：将航速减至五节，注意艏向波！
Helmsman Esam: Slow down to five knots. Watch the bow wave!

舵手伊萨姆：打开扩音器，准备驱逐海怪。
Helmsman Esam: Turn on the speakers! Time to chase off some sea monsters.

一条条指令在老练的引航员口中有条不紊地发出。
The seasoned navigator issues a steady flow of instructions.

游轮缓缓转向，巧妙地避开了莫阿纳海怪“触手”可及的范围。
The cruise ship slowly turns, skillfully avoiding the reach of the sea monster's "tentacles."

舵手乔瓦尼：会吹这个么，小姑娘？
Helmsman Giovanni: Little girl!

一枚口琴被递到了她的面前。
He gives Fatutu a harmonica and asks if she can play it.

图图石子：我不擅长……
Fatutu: Uh ... No ...

舵手老查理：别担心，小客人。不论吹得怎么样，我想都不会比伊萨姆制造的噪音更可怕了～
Helmsman Charlie: Don't worry. Anything you play will do. Can't be worse than what Esam has to offer.

舵手伊萨姆：咳咳——！
Helmsman Esam: I can hear you, you know!

海员们相互打趣，争先恐后地挤在了麦克风前面。
The sailors joke and jostle as they clamor for their respective instruments.

舵手众：当远离故乡 我多么悲伤
Helmsmen: I grieve to leave my native home.

舵手众：当告别亲朋 我多么悲伤
Helmsmen: I grieve to leave my comrades all.

突然响起的合唱声几乎震破了图图石子的耳膜。
They burst into song.

舵手伊萨姆：小姑娘，快来～
Helmsman Esam: Come on, join in!

不知不觉间，那枚口琴附在了她的嘴边。
The harmonica finds its way to her lips.

悠扬的口风笛声，跑调却热忱的歌声，随着风遥遥吹向海面。
Melodious music, off-key yet heartfelt, drifts out toward the sea.

麦黎常有如此的篝火盛会。
This is just like those nights by the bonfire in Meli.

舵手众：我们这般可怜的舵手呀
Helmsmen: But a poor simple sailor just like me,

舵手众：只好在无边洋流中颠簸
Helmsmen: Must be tossed and turned in the deep dark sea.

舵手众：向那海岸告别 告别新斯科舍
Helmsmen: Farewell to Nova Scotia, the sea-bound coast.

舵手众：让黯淡和荒凉将群山淹没
Helmsmen: Let your mountains dark and dreary be.

舵手众：当我随水流飘荡 在远洋之中
Helmsmen: For when I'm far away on the briny ocean tossed,

舵手众：你是否仍会叹息 仍将祝福我
Helmsmen: Will you ever heave a sigh or a wish for me?

……
...

巨齿飞鳐：呜——！
Serres: *roar*

一首又一首说不上名字的船歌撕开了海雾，亮光在海面上闪烁，像晚会后荧荧的篝火。
One nameless sea shanty after another tears through the fog, with lights shimmering on the sea's surface like embers after a festival bonfire.

图图石子：我……我……
Fatutu: I ...

后知后觉的小姑娘终于意识到自己参与了什么。
Realization strikes her. She finally understands her role.

图图石子：格蕾丝女士……
Fatutu: Ms. Grace!

淑女格蕾丝：外面的事并不像你想的那样轻松，当然也并没有那样可怕。
Ms. Grace: The outside world is indeed full of dangers, but there is less to fear than you think.

淑女格蕾丝：无论如何，我会帮你的。
Ms. Grace: I'll help you through it.

叮嘱与劝诫仿佛言犹在耳，她的身子一阵发虚。
Advice and reassurances echo in her mind. She suddenly feels weak.

图图石子：——我都做了些什么啊！
Fatutu: What am I doing?!

图图石子：抱歉，我想……我得先离开了。
Fatutu: Sorry, I have to go.

舵手伊萨姆：嗯？
Helmsman Esam: Hm?

仓促的脚步声蹬蹬地逃开了。
She scurries off.

图图石子：格蕾丝女士……我不明白……
Fatutu: I don't understand.

图图石子：……外面的人，都是这么吵闹而热情吗？
Fatutu: Why are they so nice? This is nothing like the stories.

敲门的手与无数真切的困惑一同悬在空中。
Her questions hang in the air, and so too does a knuckle at a door.

？？？：请进。
???: Come in.

十四行诗：司辰——刚才的事故对您有什么影响吗？
Sonetto: Timekeeper, I hope you didn't have too much difficulty during the power outage.

维尔汀：没什么，我借此测试了X的新发明，“蹦蹦跳弹力灯泡”。
Vertin: Not at all, Sonetto. It actually gave me the opportunity to try out X's latest invention—the Bouncing Bulb.

维尔汀：这是个有趣的发明……美中不足的是，它对体力的要求颇高。
Vertin: It's very interesting, a little draining though.

十四行诗：……您也可以试试这个。
Sonetto: Would you like to try out one of these, then?

维尔汀：十四行诗，这是你做的吗？
Vertin: Did you make this, Sonetto?

十四行诗：嗯，那位来自努库泰澳的塞洛尼小姐将“罗盘灼灼”灯具的做法教给了我。
Sonetto: I did. Ms. Selone from Nukutaeao taught me how to make it. It's called a Sea Mother's Eye.

十四行诗：她告诉我，当暴风雨来临时，麦黎的每家每户都会点起相似的灯。它们能为不得不出海的同伴们指引返航的方向……
Sonetto: She told me every household in Meli lights them during storms to help guide those at sea safely home.

十四行诗：“我们永远不会迷失自己的家乡。”
Sonetto: She said, "With this, no one will ever be lost in the dark."

维尔汀：这是一句很美好的祝福。谢谢你，十四行诗。
Vertin: Thank you, Sonetto. And what a lovely saying.

十四行诗松了口气，目光却仍然停留在那盏“罗盘灼灼”上。
Sonetto breathes a sigh of relief, but her eyes remain fixed on the Sea Mother's Eye.

维尔汀：……
Vertin: ...

维尔汀：在这次任务结束后，我们应该能向基金会申请一次去往意大利的短期考察。
Vertin: After this mission, we should be able to apply for a field investigation in Italy.

十四行诗：意大利……考察……
Sonetto: Italy?

十四行诗：谢谢您，司辰。
Sonetto: Thank you, Timekeeper.

橘发姑娘难掩眼中的欣喜。
Sonetto is unable to hide her delight.

维尔汀：但现在，我们得先着眼当下的任务。
Vertin: But let's focus on this mission first.

维尔汀：十四行诗，能将你的通讯器借给我么？
Vertin: May I borrow your communicator?

维尔汀：我需要验证一个猜想。
Vertin: There's something I need to verify.

十四行诗：好的。
Sonetto: Of course.

通讯器：“哔哔——”
Communicator: *beep*

通讯器：正在为您接通圣洛夫基金会，Z女士。
Communicator: Connecting to Madam Z of the St. Pavlov Foundation.

通讯器：“——”
Communicator: *static*

通讯器：“滋——滋滋——”
Communicator: *buzz*

通讯器：通讯受到严重干扰，暂时无法接通。请在“哔——”的一声后留言，当通讯恢复后，我们将尽快为您送达。
Communicator: The person you're trying to reach is currently unavailable due to communication interference. Please leave a message after the beep.

十四行诗：……？
Sonetto: Huh?

通讯器：“哔——————”
Communicator: *buzz*

维尔汀：果然，我们的通讯器都无法与外界联络了。
Vertin: Just as I suspected. Communications are blocked.

维尔汀：有人在干扰船上的信号……
Vertin: Someone's jamming the signal.

十四行诗：……是重塑之手？
Sonetto: Do you think it's Manus Vindictae?

维尔汀：很有可能。“自由海风号”的传单证明，他们与重塑之手有着千丝万缕的联系，我们得更加小心了。
Vertin: It's possible. The flyer proved that this ship has some kind of association with them. We need to stay vigilant.

十四行诗：我得赶紧去把这个消息告诉星锑。
Sonetto: Regulus should know about this. I'll go find her.

话音未落，一阵撕心裂肺的呼喊便沿着钢铁墙壁在各个房间中久久回响。
A heart-wrenching scream echoes from afar, reverberating through the halls of the ship.

？？？：不——！
???: NOOOO!

维尔汀：……是星锑的声音！
Vertin: Regulus!

急促的脚步声终于赶上了惊呼的源头。
They hurry over to the source of the scream.

十四行诗：星锑，你没事——
Sonetto: Regulus! Are you alright?!

关切的话语戛然而止。
Sonetto stops in her tracks.

眼前的画面相当熟悉，它曾无数次于科算中心的任何角落上演。
The scene before her is all too familiar, for it has played out countless times at the LSCC.

乌尔里希：咳、今天天气不错。
Ulrich: Ahem, beautiful day, isn't it?

没有对一旁星锑跌落的墨镜发表任何见解，乌尔里希冷静地将手中的咖啡灌入能源口中。
Ignoring the fact that Regulus just dropped her sunglasses, Ulrich calmly pours coffee into his energy intake.

十四行诗：乌尔里希先生……你怎么会出现在这儿？
Sonetto: Mr. Ulrich? What are you doing here?

玻璃缸内的磁流体以一个扭曲的弧度尴尬地旋转着。
The ferrofluid swirls in a distorted arc.

乌尔里希：咳咳，你们好，星锑研究员，十四行诗女士，还有……司辰小姐。
Ulrich: Ahem. Good day, Timekeeper, Researcher Regulus, Ms. Sonetto.

维尔汀：乌尔里希……这就是你说的伪装吗？
Vertin: Is this really the disguise you went with?

星锑：等、等等——！
Regulus: Wait a minute!

星锑：维尔汀，为什么你一点儿也不惊讶？！
Regulus: Vertin, did you know he'd be here?

星锑：我严正声明，我绝对不会负担半张额外的船票支出——！
Regulus: Listen, there's no way I'm paying for even half an extra ticket. In fact, he should be paying for me!

乌尔里希：咳，此事说来话长。
Ulrich: Well, this might take a while to explain.

LEE-09 战争与和平 / Science Salon

“人工暴雨”项目非正式会议，于“自由海风号”启航前
An unofficial meeting on the "Artificial Storm" project was held before the "Free Breeze" set sail from Australia.

与会人员Ⅰ：你疯了吗，乌尔里希？
Attendee I: Did you wake up with a glitch this morning, Ulrich?

与会人员Ⅰ：“暴雨”已经害死了那么多人，你居然还打算搞出一场“人工暴雨”？！
Attendee I: The "Storm" has already taken so many lives, and now you're planning to intentionally bring another one upon us?!

乌尔里希：别那么紧张，乔纳森！我会严格控制实验区域与参与人员，你的名字不在上面。
Ulrich: Quit your worrying, Jonathan. The "Artificial Storm" will be under strict control, and you're not even on the research team.

乌尔里希：更何况，目前的技术处于瓶颈阶段，我们尚有不少实验难题需要解决。
Ulrich: Besides, there are some issues we still need to fix, so we've come to a bit of a standstill for now.

乌尔里希：至少现在，我可以向你保证，这座大楼绝对安全！
Ulrich: I promise, you won't wake up to find the building engulfed by the "Storm."

与会人员Ⅰ：什么——你已经在开展实验了？！
Attendee I: Sorry, are you saying that you've already started?!

与会人员Ⅱ：乌尔里希，我必须警告你。
Attendee II: Ulrich, I have to warn you.

与会人员Ⅱ：自从解开“星锑望远镜”的谜题之后，你就把拉普拉斯的规章制度远远甩在了脑后！
Attendee II: Ever since you found that satellite, you've been pushing past the limits of Laplace's regulations.

与会人员Ⅱ：调用其他分部资料，征用珍贵素材，私自实验——
Attendee II: You've accessed materials from other branches, used valuable resources for your own purposes, and run experiments without proper clearance.

乌尔里希：停止你的污蔑，佩内洛普！我关于“人工暴雨”的每一次行动，都按照现行的规定向总部的中心负责人提交了审批。
Ulrich: What baseless claims, Penelope! I'll have you know that everything I've done has been approved by the HQ director.

与会人员Ⅰ：该死的，你明知道那个鸟位置现在还空着！
Attendee I: Director? We don't have a damn director!

乌尔里希：你瞧，我这不是还专程请来了代理负责人吗？
Ulrich: But we do have a "substitute director." So there.

它朝着一个阴沉的方位点头致意。
He gives a pointed nod in Enigma's direction.

哑谜：我再重申一次，我不是代理负责人！除了露西女士，现在没人能坐那个位置。
Enigma: For the last time, I'm not the "substitute director." No one can substitute for Madam Lucy.

熟悉的敲桌声又一次重重响起。
That familiar heavy knock on the table resounds once more.

哑谜：收起这些不着边际的话术吧，各位同僚。我们要在这儿讨论的是关于“星锑望远镜”的处理方案，而不是针对乌尔里希个人的投诉大会。
Enigma: But let's set that aside. We're here to figure out what to do with the satellite, not to stage an intervention for Ulrich.

与会人员Ⅲ：嘿嘿，这并不难，朋友们～
Attendee III: The solution's as clear as day, my friends!

与会人员Ⅲ：我们完全可以学普列谢茨克那群家伙，就在第三次暴雨的时候来着——找上几个勇敢的同事，“砰”地送到近地轨道上去！
Attendee III: We'll do exactly what they did in Plesetsk during the third "Storm." Find someone brave and send them into space!

与会人员Ⅳ：没错，既然我们能造一次天文望远镜，为什么就不能造第二次呢？
Attendee IV: He's right. Why don't we just build another satellite and see how it handles the "Storm"?

另一侧突兀地响起了掌声。
A sarcastic applause suddenly erupts.

兔毛手袋：哇哦，多么天才的想法啊～这也是为了对照组试验对不对？
Medicine Pocket: Wow, what an amazing idea! Truly a stroke of genius! So, we're talking about a controlled experiment, right?

兔毛手袋：我猜你打算送的不止一颗卫星，而是搭载不同材料的几十颗卫星！
Medicine Pocket: That means we'll send not just one, but dozens of satellites, all carrying different items!

与会人员Ⅳ：……这有什么问题吗？
Attendee IV: What's the problem with that?

兔毛手袋：我倒是有个更省事的提议——或许我们可以再等一段时间，让“暴雨”把我们带回1995年。
Medicine Pocket: Oh, nothing. The budget team will be thrilled at the idea. Here's a better one: We sit tight and wait till the "Storm" sends us back to 1995.

兔毛手袋：“啪——”！我们的卫星就能直接出现在天上，甚至还能为我们节省一大笔经费。
Medicine Pocket: And bingo! Surprise!! There's our satellite, orbiting around the Earth once again.

哑谜：兔毛手袋研究员，请遵循学术交流的基本礼节。
Enigma: Medicine Pocket, please mind your tone in the meeting room.

兔毛手袋：如果他们不打算把拉普拉斯的经费消耗个干净的话，我倒是很愿意这么做。
Medicine Pocket: Oh sure, just as soon as they stop trying to waste all our research funds.

乌尔里希：我赞成兔毛手袋研究员的异议。
Ulrich: I'm with Researcher Medicine Pocket here.

乌尔里希：重新发射卫星毫无必要，我们应该把注意力放到“人工暴雨”项目上来——
Ulrich: There's no need to launch more satellites. We should be focusing on the "Artificial Storm" project.

组长一拍桌子，将所有人的注意力拢回了一处。
Ulrich knocks the table, drawing everyone's attention.

乌尔里希：“人工暴雨”项目已经取得了相当的成果！
Ulrich: The project has made substantial progress!

众人：……
Crowd: ...

乌尔里希：我收集了“星锑望远镜”搭载清单上的全部材料，甚至包括普列谢茨克航天基地的太空种子——你们应该知道它们有多难搞到，甚至超过了星锑的唱片！
Ulrich: I have collected every item that was once on the "Regulus Satellite," including the space seeds from Plesetsk. You have no idea how difficult that was; let me tell you! It was easier to get Regulus's record!

哑谜：不要试图粉饰自己的偷窃行为，乌尔里希！
Enigma: Still, you probably didn't need to steal it, Ulrich!

与会人员Ⅴ：我早就听说了你的实验进展，它根本没有你吹嘘的那么顺利！
Attendee V: You say that, but I've heard that it isn't going all that smoothly!

与会人员Ⅴ：通过声波发生器按照固定频率促进非对称核素R发生反应，以模拟“暴雨”环境。你的实验方向看似美好——
Attendee V: Accelerating the reaction of asymmetrical nuclide R with fixed-frequency sound waves so as to simulate the "Storm." It sounds impressive, but ...

与会人员Ⅴ：可结果呢？
Attendee V: What's the payoff? Have you found the key material that provides immunity from the "Storm"?

乌尔里希，你找到那种能够免疫回溯的材料了么？

乌尔里希：你是对的，卢卡斯。目前的“人工暴雨”实验流程存在严重缺陷。
Ulrich: Good point, Lukas. I never claimed the experiment was perfect. In fact, I'll be the first to admit that it has some serious procedural flaws.

与会人员Ⅴ：……？
Attendee V: Huh?

乌尔里希：经过26次在实验室环境下的“人工暴雨”反应，我确认了包括7种太空种子、天体摄谱仪、高速光度计、黑曜石晶体、泽兰护符的材料效果。
Ulrich: Through 26 microscale "Artificial Storms," I tested seven different space seeds, an astronomical spectrometer, a high-speed photometer, some obsidian crystals, and a Lycopus lucidus talisman.

乌尔里希：它们确实不具备免疫回溯的功能。
Ulrich: None of them endured the trials.

与会人员Ⅴ：那你是打算放弃了？
Attendee V: So, what do we do now? Just give up?

乌尔里希：当然不!
Ulrich: No!

组长尴尬地轻咳两声。
Ulrich awkwardly clears his throat.

乌尔里希：……只是非对称核素R的储备严重不足了。
Ulrich: But I have used all the asymmetrical nuclide R that we had in the warehouse.

兔毛手袋：什么——？！
Medicine Pocket: What?!

愤怒的研究员像是触电般蹦到了桌上。
Medicine Pocket springs to their feet like a shocked animal.

哑谜：冷静点，兔毛手袋！——乔纳森研究员，去调用最新材质的解压弹力球！
Enigma: Sit down, Medicine Pocket! Jonathan, go get them a stress ball!

兔毛手袋：拍桌子可不只是你的特权，代理负责人。
Medicine Pocket: No! I can shout all I want, okay, "substitute director"?!

乌尔里希面前的桌子几乎快要震飞出去。
Medicine Pocket slams the table, sending papers flying.

兔毛手袋：见鬼，你把那些非对称核素R都用了？！
Medicine Pocket: Ulrich! All the asymmetrical nuclide R? It's all gone?!

乌尔里希：这是必要的实验耗材。
Ulrich: I had to use it. It's just standard consumption, like in any other experiment! And I got results!

兔毛手袋：当然，毕竟你有源源不断的耗材可以填进去，再愚蠢的学生把答题卡填满内容也总会有蒙中的时候。
Medicine Pocket: With that amount of resources, of course you'd find something, dumbass! Even a broken clock's right twice a day!

兔毛手袋：再跑快几步，你就能在错误的道路上蹿得更远了。
Medicine Pocket: Keep at it if you want. You're gonna smash that dead end head-on!

乌尔里希：你负责的是生物技术组，我不需要向你汇报我的工作。
Ulrich: I don't see why you're commenting on my work. We're not even in the same department.

乌尔里希按住桌子，以减轻脑袋里磁流体与桌子的共振。
Ulrich presses down on the table to ease the vibrations shaking the ferrofluid in his tank.

兔毛手袋：那可不是一星半点！你几乎把拉普拉斯和基金会所有分部的非对称核素R库存掏了个干净——
Medicine Pocket: Because you used my materials! That was most of the nuclide R from both Laplace and the Foundation!

兔毛手袋：就连我那聒噪的同事九个人都用不了这么多非对称核素R，而我填上几十张那该死的申请表才能被批准用上堪堪几滴——！
Medicine Pocket: You have to be kidding me! You get all you want while I'm here, like some chump, filling out endless forms just to get a few drops!

兔毛手袋的工牌在某种强劲而琐碎的咬合声中吱呀作响。
The badge on Medicine Pocket's chest creaks under the stress of their shouts.

兔毛手袋：要我说，如果你们一开始就把浪费的经费和非对称核素R让给我的项目，我很乐意在下一次“暴雨”时带着那些需要验证的材料去外头跑上几圈！
Medicine Pocket: Next time, just give me the funds and nuclide, and I'll be more than happy to run a few laps in the "Storm" with that crap from the satellite and see what happens!

乌尔里希：我们不会漠视任何一个实验人员的生命安全。
Ulrich: We would never endanger the life of a researcher like that.

与会人员Ⅲ：最安全的项目当然是重新发射一颗新的卫星。更何况，科算中心还能找到不少致力于太空研究的前辈。
Attendee III: That's why we should launch another satellite! No need to risk anyone's life, especially since we've got plenty of colleagues with aeronautics experience.

哑谜：我否决这一提案，目前最了解太空的研究员还躺在拉普拉斯的病房里。
Enigma: Can't do that. Our best space expert is still in the Laplace care unit.

众人：……
Crowd: ...

眼下的硝烟短暂地消散了，终于有人想起会议的正题。
The smoke temporarily clears, and finally, one member returns the meeting to its main agenda.

与会人员Ⅱ：你打算如何推进下一步实验，乌尔里希？
Attendee II: So, Ulrich, what's the next step with your experiment?

乌尔里希：当然是到外面去。
Ulrich: I'm taking it outside, of course.

乌尔里希：非对称核素R储备最丰富的地方绝不是我们的实验室或是基金会的储物间，而是整个世界！
Ulrich: The richest deposits of asymmetrical nuclide R aren't in the lab or the Foundation's warehouse. They're out there in the real world!

哑谜：……？
Enigma: ...?

乌尔里希：更重要的是，过往的“人工暴雨”研究忽略了纯粹环境的影响。
Ulrich: We've been overlooking how the density of nuclide R has affected our experiment results.

与会人员Ⅴ：你只是在为你的失败找借口，乌尔里希！其他地方的研究所怎么可能比我们的实验室更加纯净呢？
Attendee V: Come on, Ulrich, that's just an excuse. Where would you find a higher nuclide R density than in a Laplace lab?

乌尔里希：“暴雨”的象征从来都不是纯粹，而是混沌。
Ulrich: That might be the exact problem. The environment here is too controlled, too clean. The "Storm" has never been the manifestation of order, but of chaos.

与会人员Ⅴ：……
Attendee V: ...

哑谜：可你要怎么满世界地找到你声称的混沌环境，这是在大海捞针！
Enigma: And how exactly do you plan on finding chaos?

会议室的天才们各不相让，为自己的项目与研究预算而战。
The scientists are fighting tooth and nail to secure the budgets for their individual projects.

乌尔里希：够了——！
Ulrich: Everyone, please!

乌尔里希：再这样争执下去，连那个鬼鬼祟祟的洛伦兹研究所的进度都要超过我们了！
Ulrich: If we just sit here arguing instead of getting out there and doing something, those sneaky researchers at Institutum Lorentz are going to get ahead of us!

它重重地将一封蝴蝶纹样的信封拍在桌上，为这团热闹的火又添了一把薪柴。
He slams a butterfly-patterned envelope heavily onto the table, adding yet more fuel to the fiery chaos.

哑谜：洛伦兹……那个古怪的神秘学至上的秘密结社？
Enigma: Lorentz. That strange secret society?

兔毛手袋：让我瞧瞧，它们又寄了什么挑衅信过来？！
Medicine Pocket: Let's see what kind of bull they're spouting this time!

与会人员Ⅱ：住嘴，兔毛手袋——我们有专业的碎纸机！
Attendee II: No, Medicine Pocket! Just toss the letter into the shredder!

急促的脚步踏入了这片纷乱的废墟。
Hurried footsteps echo, and a clear voice cuts through the chaos.

希曼：女士们，先生们，很抱歉打扰你们的头脑风暴，圣洛夫基金会方通过了最新的决议。
Simone: Ladies and gentlemen, my apologies for interrupting your debate. The St. Pavlov Foundation has passed a new resolution.

LEE-10 一面又一面 / Piracy—Not the Fun Kind

希曼的发言显然是颗更重磅的炸弹。
Simone's statement is definitely a much more damaging bomb.

与会人员Ⅰ：希曼女士，我没听错吧……您刚才提到了基金会？
Attendee I: Ms. Simone, did you just say something about the Foundation?

与会人员Ⅰ：据我所知，这次会议需要解决的是如何确认能够越过“暴雨”的稳定性材料，这跟基金会有什么关系？
Attendee I: Are we not moving off-topic? We were discussing our efforts to identify substances immune to the "Storm." What is all this about the Foundation?

兔毛手袋：——天大的好消息！
Medicine Pocket: No idea, but it's sure to be the most cheerful, positive, wonderful news.

兔毛手袋：你们赶走了铁壳子，现在这儿得轮到基金会的呆脑瓜们拍板了。
Medicine Pocket: That'll teach you to run Madam Bucket Head out of town. Now it's going to be those Foundation dimwits calling the shots, ha.

哑谜：首先，我完全不接受基金会对于拉普拉斯科算中心的一丁点儿管辖权，我会在之后解决这个问题的，我保证。
Enigma: I won't stand for the Foundation ordering Laplace around. I'll set things straight with them later, you have my word.

心怀愤懑的会议主持人高举手掌，片刻后又无奈放下，只能颓然坐倒在椅子上。
He raises his hands in exasperation before promptly dropping them and slumping back into his chair.

哑谜：其次，你可以开始宣布了，希曼女士。
Enigma: In fact, Ms. Simone, you may relay my message now.

希曼：我理解你的心情，哑谜先生。但就眼下的状况而言，这不见得是一件坏事。
Simone: I understand your concerns, Mr. Enigma. But given our present circumstances, the Foundation's involvement may have a bright side.

她展开了一份工整的文书。
She unfolds a neatly prepared document.

希曼：基金会的决议主要是关于“人工暴雨”项目的，乌尔里希先生。
Simone: The resolution the Foundation relayed to me was principally concerned with your "Artificial Storm" project, Mr. Ulrich.

乌尔里希：……？
Ulrich: ...?

与会人员Ⅱ：你背叛了组织，乌尔里希？
Attendee II: What? Did you switch gears on us, Ulrich?

乌尔里希：该死的，我没有——！我只是想要一份基金会仓库的通行证。
Ulrich: For flux's sake! All I did was ask for a little support.

希曼：基金会答应了你的援助申请。
Simone: Speaking of, the Foundation also sent through their approval for your other requests.

希曼：实验清单里提及的大部分材料、非对称核素R的储量补充、协助实验的外派调查员，一切都将分批运送到拉普拉斯的各分部。
Simone: Mostly, anyway. They agreed to supply the majority of your requested materials, including replenishing a portion of our asymmetrical nuclide R, and they've dispatched field investigators to assist us.

希曼：另外，关于你提到的符合实验条件的坐标，基金会同样做了初步筛选与确认。
Simone: Additionally, they've done preliminary screenings on the locations you mentioned and confirmed they meet the specifications of our experiments.

与会人员Ⅰ：……基金会之前可从没对我们这么大方过。
Attendee I: The Foundation has never been this generous with us before.

乌尔里希：——！
Ulrich: ...!

幸福来得太过突然，连久经战场的组长也恍惚了许久。
Joy rushes through Ulrich. He feels almost in a daze.

兔毛手袋：别高兴得太早了，乌尔里希！
Medicine Pocket: Don't go popping the champagne just yet, Ulrich!

兔毛手袋：这还远远不够填上你浪费的非对称核素R的缺口——！
Medicine Pocket: Our new bosses aren't going to come anywhere close to replacing all the asymmetrical nuclide R you've wasted!

它对兔毛手袋的发言置若罔闻，目光炽烈地盯着希曼手中的信件。
Ulrich ignores them, his gaze fixated on the letter in Simone's hands.

乌尔里希：基金会的条件是什么？
Ulrich: Still, it's all too easy. What's the catch?

希曼：他们必须得到第一手的实验结论。
Simone: They want to witness our results—firsthand.

可怜的桌子发出了今天的倒数第二声哀嚎。
The table is smacked once again.

乌尔里希：成交！
Ulrich: Deal!

乌尔里希：随便谁——别忘了做会议记录！
Ulrich: Someone—anyone—take down the minutes!

乌尔里希重重挥拳，玻璃缸中的磁流体翻起一阵波浪。
Ulrich pounds the table once more, sending waves through the ferrofluid.

希曼：另外，信件上提到了一个特殊的坐标，他们无法确认该坐标的具体情况……
Simone: They also sent over another possible location that they haven't been able to confirm.

希曼：那是……一艘船。
Simone: A ship.

希曼：考虑到可能的风险，基金会方建议你亲自前往调查。
Simone: The Foundation has requested that you investigate it personally.

希曼：关于它的详细内容，你可以联系司辰。
Simone: The Timekeeper will brief you on the details.

……
...

星锑：好吧，乌尔里希组长，我接受你的解释了。
Regulus: Fine, Fish Tank, you're off the hook for now.

星锑瞧了瞧维尔汀，又望了望正在坦然脱下伪装的乌尔里希。
Regulus glances at them, then her eyes fix on Ulrich, who is calmly removing his disguise.

星锑：……
Regulus: ...

星锑：所以你并不打算带着我的“小东西”偷渡出港，而是为了实验？
Regulus: Just so we're clear. You're not planning to smuggle out my "treasure," right?

乌尔里希：当然。
Ulrich: I wouldn't think of it.

星锑：也不打算榨干你可怜组员的钱包给自己补票？
Regulus: Fab, and you're not angling that I foot the bill for this excursion, right?

乌尔里希：……
Ulrich: ...

乌尔里希轻咳了两声，将话题掰回了正轨。
Ulrich clears his throat before steering the conversation back on track.

乌尔里希：基金会的情报相当准确，经过初步检测，这儿确实是个符合实验条件的地方。
Ulrich: The Foundation's intel appears accurate. After some preliminary checks, I am certain this will be an ideal locale to conduct our experiments.

乌尔里希：除了“暴雨”的时候，非对称核素R检测仪的读数可从来没有这么激烈过。
Ulrich: I've never seen such intense readings of asymmetrical nuclide R outside of the "Storm."

星锑：慢着，乌尔里希组长！
Regulus: Now hold on a minute, Ulrich!

星锑：你会抱着那些材料到海里去游泳吗？
Regulus: You're not about to take a swim, are you?

乌尔里希：如有必要的话。
Ulrich: Only if necessary.

星锑：……喂！我抗——
Regulus: With my record! You've got to be off your rocker, mate!

抢在星锑发出新的宣言之前，一张熟悉的唱片猝不及防地映在了墨镜的倒影中。
Ulrich quickly abates her protestations by presenting her with the record.

乌尔里希：它该物归原主了。
Ulrich: Not at all. It's time it was returned to its rightful owner.

星锑：——！
Regulus: ...!

一人一唱片亲昵地搂抱在一起。
She embraces the record like an old friend.

星锑：我的宝贝儿唱片，欢迎回家！——我保证我会在APPLe电台连续播放72小时，为你举办最最最盛大的回归派对！
Regulus: Oh, my darling, oh, my treasure, welcome home! I'll broadcast your tracks on Radio APPLe for 72 hours straight and hold the rockin'-est party ever just for you! Oh! You've got my word!

重逢的喜悦终于在接连不断的热泪与耳鬓厮磨中宣泄完毕，一个更严峻的可能性闪过星锑的脑海。
The joy of this reunion pours out of her, before a graver possibility flashes across her mind.

星锑：等等，你该不会打算现在收回对我的一切资助吧——！
Regulus: Hold on. You're not about to withhold my funds, are you?!

乌尔里希：你误会了，星锑研究员。
Ulrich: Fret not, Regulus.

乌尔里希：考虑到这张唱片本身对于你的特殊意义……我们将对它的“采样与成分分析”工作列入了第一优先级，目前这项工作已经完成了，它当然应该物归原主。
Ulrich: Given its special significance to you, we made its composition analysis our first priority. Now that the first step is done, I'm more than happy to return it to you.

星锑：可，你的实验还没有结束……
Regulus: But what about your experiments?

星锑抚摸着手中的“小东西”，咬了咬牙，又忍痛将它递给了乌尔里希。
Clutching her "little thing" in her hands, Regulus hesitates, then reluctantly hands it to Ulrich.

组长轻咳了两声，又故作正式地重新披上了“伪装”。
Ulrich clears his throat again, donning the feigned formality of his "disguise" once more.

乌尔里希：别担心，我早有准备。
Ulrich: Not to worry. I've already made arrangements.

它得意洋洋地扬起风衣，展示拉普拉斯最新的杰作。
He proudly raises his coat to unveil Laplace's latest masterpiece.

数十张一模一样的“小东西”唱片叠成了一摞。
Dozens of identical "little thing" records are stacked neatly together.

乌尔里希：为了实验结果的一致性，我们甚至以同样的书写材料与笔迹模拟了上面的乐队签名。
Ulrich: We went to great lengths to ensure these replicas were identical in every way. We even reproduced the ink used in the signature.

乌尔里希：这些材料是拉普拉斯工艺的结晶。音场的空间感与细节表现、唱片本身使用的乙烯基材料，甚至是中间的装饰水晶，我们都做到了结构与表现的完全一致。
Ulrich: Identical down to their heart and soul, courtesy of Laplace craftsmanship. We've achieved complete consistency in both composition and appearance.

组长自豪的语气与星锑惊讶的疾呼声交织在一起。
Ulrich's proud tone is cut off by Regulus's exclamation of surprise.

星锑：什么——！
Regulus: What?!

星锑：尽管我完全认可拉普拉斯科算中心的科研素质与实验态度——
Regulus: Well, I've got to hand it to you; they're dead-ringers for the real thing.

星锑：……但这并不代表我支持你的盗印行为啊！
Regulus: But this is piracy, and not the fun kind! Musical piracy!

乌尔里希：……
Ulrich: ...

乌尔里希：看来你对科研使命的理解仍有不足……星锑研究员，你还有很长的路要走啊！
Ulrich: Drastic times call for drastic measures. I hope you'll find it in your heart to forgive us, Regulus.

LEE-11 我可恨的乡土啊 / The Hateful Hometown

积云在夜空中缓缓倒退，像是一阵接一阵涌起的海浪，无名的星星们林立着，遥远地拢成一个小小的斑点。
Cumulus clouds drift slowly across the night sky like the rolling waves of the sea, the countless stars glinting gently behind them.

湿润的海风挟着水汽裹在船栏上。观景舷窗前，年轻的船长看不出表情。
The damp sea breeze has laid a heavy layer of moisture on the surfaces of the ship. Standing at the observation window, the captain's face betrays no emotion.

某些微不可查的声音在门前踌躇着。
There is a faint, hesitant sound at her door.

淑女格蕾丝：——！
Ms. Grace: ...!

淑女格蕾丝：真没想到你会主动到这儿来，图图石子小姐。
Ms. Grace: Oh, Ms. Fatutu, I hadn't expected you to visit.

惊喜的表情写满了她整张脸。
Grace's face lights up, every inch radiating joy.

格蕾丝热切地推开门，将瑟缩不前的姑娘亲昵地牵到面前。
She eagerly opens the door, affectionately pulling Fatutu into the room.

淑女格蕾丝：我差点儿都以为会主动来拜访我的只有那些庸俗的、捏着几张薄纸片在唠叨着什么旅游规划、长期合作的官员和商人了……
Ms. Grace: I must say it's a welcome relief from the onslaught of greedy businessmen and boorish officials.

淑女格蕾丝：他们脑子的肿胀程度简直快赶上我从水里捞起的标本了……但是你明白的，作为收藏品而言，这些叽叽喳喳的家伙们还为时尚早。
Ms. Grace: All puff and no substance—bloated, lifeless, they remind me of a few specimens of decay from my collection.

图图石子：格蕾丝女士，难道您的收藏品是海上的浮、浮……
Fatutu: Decaying specimens? Ms. Grace, you mean bodi—

淑女格蕾丝：嘘——抱歉，我好像说的有些太多了。
Ms. Grace: Hush. Let's just leave things at that.

她眯了眯眼睛，打量着眼前姑娘微微凸起的血管，想象着血液在其中局促而张皇地奔流。
She squints as she studies the faintly protruding veins on the girl's hands, imagining the blood coursing anxiously through them.

淑女格蕾丝：忘了它吧，我猜你希望询问的问题与它们无关。
Ms. Grace: So then, you're here to talk about something else? Go ahead.

图图石子：……是的，格蕾丝女士。
Fatutu: Yes, Ms. Grace.

图图石子：我希望能从您这儿得到指引……
Fatutu: I just wanted some advice, if you don't mind.

淑女格蕾丝：当然可以，我们是朋友，对吧？
Ms. Grace: Not at all, my dear. We are friends, aren't we?

淑女格蕾丝：在海上，迷茫是我们最大的敌人，我们脚不着地，不知自己身在何处，也不知自己将去向何地……我很乐意为朋友解答类似的问题。
Ms. Grace: We are venturing into the unknown. So, it is little surprise that you feel lost, but disorientation is a dangerous enemy. I am more than happy to help.

图图石子：……
Fatutu: ...

淑女格蕾丝：放轻松，我们至少还有一个漫长的夜晚。
Ms. Grace: Relax and keep an open mind, dear. We have a long night ahead.

隐约的细碎响动从外面传来，但这显然无法影响姑娘们的促膝长谈。
A few soft, subtle noises come from outside, but they are not enough to disrupt the intimate conversation between the two.

格蕾丝放下手中的怀表，目光穿过半掩的舱门，勾出一抹似有若无的微笑。
Grace sets down her pocket watch, her gaze drifting past the slightly ajar door, a faint smile teasing her lips.

图图石子：我试图遵循您的建议，对外界的一切都置之不理……但我失败了。
Fatutu: The thing is, I tried to ignore the outside world, just like you said, but I failed.

图图石子不自觉地低下了头。
Fatutu instinctively lowers her head.

图图石子：我无法朝着完全不了解的人举起复仇的长矛，哪怕是为了我们自己的家园……
Fatutu: The idea of raising a spear against people I know so little about, even if it was to avenge my home.

图图石子：所以我尝试了解更多关于外面的事，我……我违背了您的告诫。
Fatutu: I thought I had to learn more about these outsiders, to understand them. I'm sorry I went against your advice.

图图石子：我想要变得更加坚定……
Fatutu: I thought that learning about them would harden my resolve.

图图石子：我以为这样就能让我憎恨他们，下定决心跟随您，参与重塑的复仇计划，能够带领努库泰澳人去往新世界……
Fatutu: I thought that I would hate them from the depths of my soul, that the hatred would be so strong that I'd feel no remorse, that I would see in them what you and Manus Vindictae do.

图图石子：可……
Fatutu: But ...

意志的动摇令图图石子羞愧地低下了头。
In the face of her wavering resolve, Fatutu bows her head in shame.

图图石子：可为什么我在“自由海风号”上了解的越多，我却越来越迷茫呢？
Fatutu: Instead, after interacting with the people here ...

喧嚷的音乐厅、闹腾的游客、热烈的灯火与船歌，船上的一幕幕犹在眼前。
The noisy music hall, the bustling tourists, the bright lights, the sea shanties—they all linger in her mind.

淑女格蕾丝：这一点儿也不可耻，图图石子小姐。
Ms. Grace: Fatutu, my dear. There's no shame in having second thoughts.

温和的答复令图图石子愣了愣神。
The gentleness of her response leaves Fatutu momentarily stunned.

淑女格蕾丝：在窥见世界的全貌之前，我们大都会有类似的误解。
Ms. Grace: How could you not? This was but your first glimpse of a world so much wider than you knew.

淑女格蕾丝：这个世界是一具刚刚死去的躯体，肺部甚至还残留着新鲜吸入的空气。
Ms. Grace: But you'll soon realize that it is nothing more than a dying corpse, its lungs still clinging on to its last breath.

淑女格蕾丝：最先腐败的是面庞。噢，那是一个糟糕的开始，迅速缩小而浑浊的眼球是令无数标本家们都相当苦恼的难题之一。
Ms. Grace: The face rots first, you know? It's a nasty scene, I assure you. Those shrinking, putrefying eyeballs are always a headache for taxidermists.

淑女格蕾丝：紧接着是胸腔与肺部，情况变得糟糕，难闻的气体争先恐后地涌入每一寸尚未被占领的角落。它们膨胀开来，像是即将迸散的礼花。
Ms. Grace: Next, the chest cavity. It rots out from the inside, bloating with noxious gases produced by its decomposing flesh until it's ready to pop like a party balloon.

淑女格蕾丝：但值得庆幸的是，倘若你在这时候观赏其中的手足，或是轻抚其中的骨骼，你仍然会惊叹于造物主的伟大，“噢！祂究竟是如何雕琢出如此完美的结构的？”
Ms. Grace: Even at this stage, if you were to hold your breath and look only to the limbs, you might marvel at the artisanship—such a perfect creation! Yet, it dies all the same. So it goes.

图图石子从未见过这样热情洋溢的船长。
Fatutu has never encountered such a warm and spirited captain before.

淑女格蕾丝：你可以再想想，好好地想一想……
Ms. Grace: Do you see the world any clearer now? Take your time. Think it through.

格蕾丝轻轻敲击着船板，像是在为门外的窸窣脚步声打着节拍。
Grace lightly taps her finger on the board beside her, as if keeping time with the faint footsteps outside.

沉思中的图图石子对这一切浑然未觉。
Lost in thought, Fatutu remains oblivious to it all.

图图石子：……
Fatutu: ...

图图石子：外面的人和我想的很不一样……他们真的那么邪恶吗？
Fatutu: The outsiders are different from what I expected. Ms. Grace, are you sure they're truly evil?

淑女格蕾丝：……呵呵。
Ms. Grace: Heh heh.

格蕾丝瞥了瞥窗外。
Grace glances out the window.

空无一人的舷窗里，古怪的震响声越发明显了。
Through the porthole, a strange vibrating sound grows louder and more distinct.

图图石子：……？
Fatutu: ...?

跟随船长的视线，图图石子终于注意到了那片巨大的“阴影”。
Following Grace's gaze, Fatutu notices an enormous "shadow" on the other side of the porthole.

遮阳伞与围栏，真的能组成如此巨大的阴影吗？
Can parasols and railings really create such an enormous silhouette?

淑女格蕾丝：她们无比狡猾、邪恶，甚至还会偷听他人的秘密。
Ms. Grace: They're cunning, menacing, and at times, have even been known to engage in eavesdropping.

“阴影”蹑手蹑脚地朝着她们的方向逼近了。
The "shadow" creeps closer toward them, stealthy and deliberate.

图图石子：格、格蕾丝……小姐，那个“怪物”在朝着我们探头探脑——！
Fatutu: M-Ms. Grace, watch out! It's ... it's some kind of monster!

毫无疑问，这样刻薄的形容词激怒了对方。
There is no doubt. This cutting description has angered the shadowy intruder.

？？？：哈……？
???: Huh?

图图石子：难道——是敌人？！
Fatutu: I-It's here!

图图石子手忙脚乱地抱起周围的杂物，信号灯、扫帚、抛绳……它们像雨点一样飞扬起来，接连不断地飞向门外。
Scrambling, Fatutu grabs whatever is nearby—signal lights, brooms, and heaving lines—and flings them out the door.

图图石子：我……我来保护你，格蕾丝小姐！
Fatutu: I'll protect you, Ms. Grace!

门外的动静似乎消失了。
The commotion seems to have come to an end.

图图石子：危、危机……解除了吗？
Fatutu: Is it dead?

大口喘气的图图石子勇敢地冲出了船舱。
Panting heavily, Fatutu musters the courage to rush out of the cabin.

甲板上出现的人影与预想中的可怕敌人相去甚远。
The figure on the deck is far removed from the terrifying enemy she envisioned.

图图石子：啊——竟然是你，芭卡洛儿小姐……
Fatutu: Oh! It's you, Barcarola.

芭卡洛儿：呜呜……
Barcarola: *sob*

一副泫然欲泣的脸庞从大战后的废墟中探了出来。
A familiar tear-streaked face emerges from the aftermath of the chaos.

船长显然对游轮员工的狼狈状况早有预料。
The captain, however, seems unfazed by the disheveled state of her cruise staff.

淑女格蕾丝：很高兴能在这儿见到你，芭卡洛儿小姐。
Ms. Grace: Ms. Barcarola, what a pleasure to see you.

芭卡洛儿：图图石子，你、你怎么能这样？！
Barcarola: Have you lost your mind, Fatutu?!

芭卡洛儿：我只是想为“罗盘灼灼”的事向你道谢，可我哪儿也找不到你——
Barcarola: I've been looking all over the ship for you to thank you for the lamps you made!

芭卡洛儿：就算你不愿意接受我的谢意，也不该做出乱扔东西这么粗鲁的举动呀！
Barcarola: This is a funny way of saying "you're welcome."

芭卡洛儿：在克雷莫纳，哪怕是再不学无术的家伙——也不会朝着路过的可怜小狗这样丢石子！
Barcarola: Not even the rudest stunad in Cremona would attack someone for saying thanks!

某个陌生的名词在恼怒的唇齿间脱口而出，又落入另一双好奇的耳朵里。
An unfamiliar term springs from her lips, sparking Fatutu's curiosity.

图图石子：克雷……莫纳？
Fatutu: Cremona? Where's that?

芭卡洛儿：……我什么也没说！
Barcarola: That's really not what matters here!

淑女格蕾丝：放松下来，朋友们，这只是个令人发笑的小误会，不是么？
Ms. Grace: Settle down please, ladies. This was only a small misunderstanding, wasn't it?

淑女格蕾丝：作为船长，也作为你们的朋友，我很希望你们将来能成为要好的同伴。
Ms. Grace: As both your captain and your friend, I hope that you might be able to resolve this. I do believe I could see you two becoming fast friends.

船长的拉拢毫不遮掩。
The captain's overtures are anything but subtle.

淑女格蕾丝：我想，图图石子小姐很乐意了解更多关于外面的事，而我们的芭卡洛儿小姐，恰好藏着许多故事，不是么？
Ms. Grace: Fatutu here is eager to learn about the outside world. And I'm sure you must have many stories to share, don't you?

淑女格蕾丝：嗯……就当做“罗盘灼灼”的报答好了。
Ms. Grace: Consider it a favor in exchange for those Sea Mother's Eyes.

图图石子＆芭卡洛儿：……
Fatutu & Barcarola: ...

将语塞的客人们留在原地显然不是一位经验丰富的船长应有的待客之道。
It simply wouldn't do for a captain to leave these two in such a state.

淑女格蕾丝：请到这边来，芭卡洛儿小姐。
Ms. Grace: Why don't you take a seat, Ms. Barcarola?

她往一旁挪了挪，在光洁如新的甲板上留出了一个足够的空缺。
She moves aside, extending two delicate hands to them.

女孩们任由一双亲昵的手牵引着靠在了一起。
The girls take her hands, allowing themselves to be drawn close. Then, they lean together on the railing.

海风攀上甲板，吹散了片刻前的尴尬。
The sea breeze sweeps across the deck, dispersing whatever awkwardness there was between them.

淑女格蕾丝：克雷莫纳，这是一个难以启齿的名字吗？
Ms. Grace: You were quick to gloss over your hometown. Cremona, wasn't it?

船长的语气温和而柔软，年轻的乐手终于放松了紧绷的琴弦。
Grace's voice is gentle and soft. Barcarola finally loosens the tension in her strings, speaking as she looks out over the moonlit water.

芭卡洛儿：不。它是我的家乡，世人口中的小提琴之乡，一个古板又令人讨厌的陈旧地方！
Barcarola: Cremona, the "City of Violins," as they say. Sì, I was born in that awful, dreary old place. But I don't like to talk about it, Ms. Grace.

另一颗好奇的心也凑了上来。
Fatutu examines Barcarola's expression.

图图石子：可是……你的语气听上去并没有厌恶呀。
Fatutu: Hmm. But it sounds like you still miss your home, so why speak of it that way? Is there something wrong with it?

图图石子：在努库泰澳，如果讨厌什么，我们会将它和臭芥草儿缠在一块儿，再用力把它抛向海里，让它永永远远地沉在水底，再也不会想起来。
Fatutu: In Nukutaeao, when we find something rotted in our village, we wrap it up in stinky grass and throw it in the ocean.

图图石子：难道外面的人们不会这么做吗？
Fatutu: Do you outsiders not do this as well?

芭卡洛儿：它……它当然还没有那么糟糕。
Barcarola: W-Well, it's not completely rotted exactly. It's just ...

少女皱了皱眉头，像是在努力寻找合适的措辞。
She furrows her brow, seemingly searching for the right words.

芭卡洛儿：我们整天浸泡在小提琴的琴盒里，学习关于它的一切知识。乐理、演奏、世代相传的小提琴修复技艺，到处都是名头唬人的音乐大师们！
Barcarola: In Cremona, everything is bound up with the violin. How it's made, how it's played, even the science of it. It fills the air, and every conversation. You can't walk to the restaurant without tripping over a virtuoso!

芭卡洛儿：许多人都慕名到这儿来，柏林人、伦敦人、格拉茨人、费拉拉人、乌普萨拉人……他们在任何你能发现的地方举办演出、古典音乐会、音乐节，或是别的什么。
Barcarola: They come from Rome, Berlin, London, New York, Nairobi, Tokyo, Uppsala, people from far and wide, all crammed into one town. Not a day goes by without a concert, a symphony, or a festival musicale.

图图石子：可……这听上去很有意思呀？
Fatutu: Am I misunderstanding you? Because to the Nukutai, the idea of a place with music and festivals every day sounds very fun.

芭卡洛儿：一点儿也不好。
Barcarola: That's where you're wrong, Miss. It's no fun at all.

芭卡洛儿：克雷莫纳的人们都为出生在这座城市而骄傲，除了我。
Barcarola: At least, for me. To be Cremonese is to take pride in its music, its history, and above all, its violins.

芭卡洛儿：克雷莫纳比你想象的还要单调无数倍！那儿只有小提琴、中提琴、大提琴、低音提琴……各种各样的提琴！
Barcarola: And you must learn to love the violin, the viola, the violoncello, and the bass! Because there is nothing else! Every quartet is a string quartet. Every concerto is Vivaldi! Strings, strings, strings! The monotony is unbearable!

芭卡洛儿：要知道，音乐的世界可是多么精彩、多么繁盛！就连你脖子上的贝壳，只要找准发声位置，它也能成为一件特别的乐器呢！
Barcarola: The world has so very many instruments as diverse and as varied as the people that fill it! Even the shell around your neck could sing if you knew just where to tap it!

芭卡洛儿：如果不离开家乡，我就没法将“啪叽咒”运用得更好，没法做出更好的啪唧匣子……当然也见不到世界上那么多稀奇古怪的乐器了！
Barcarola: But not in Cremona. That's why I speak of it that way, Fatutu. Because, if I had stayed there, I would never have seen the music of the world and its instruments, and my Crackling Box would never have been able to know their sounds.

图图石子：可……努库泰澳人一直待在自己的岛上，我们并不会感到枯燥。
Fatutu: The Nukutai don't have many instruments—not so many as you anyway—but we were never bored with what we had.

图图石子：或许你也可以尝试找找那儿的贝壳、礁石，或者是海藻之类的漂亮小玩意儿～
Fatutu: I'm certain that your island holds great beauty beyond its music. If ever we grow tired of singing and dancing, we'd go searching for shells or swimming in the reefs.

芭卡洛儿：唉……你太年轻了，图图石子小姐，事情可没你想的那么简单。
Barcarola: *sigh* You still have much to learn about the world beyond your islands.

淑女格蕾丝：芭卡洛儿女士，你不打算再回去了么？
Ms. Grace: Then you have no intention of ever returning home, Ms. Barcarola?

这似乎只是一个无比寻常的问题。
A seemingly most ordinary question.

芭卡洛儿：……当然！
Barcarola: Return? No, never!

芭卡洛儿：克雷莫纳的家伙们完全不能理解我的创举！在他们眼里，我只是个叛逆的孩子，他们排挤我，讥笑我……
Barcarola: They're too set in their ways, like old fossils. My vision of music grew beyond them, and I did too.

芭卡洛儿将双手拢在嘴边，朝着薄雾笼罩的海平面高声呼喊。
Barcarola cups her hands around her mouth and hollers out into the fog-covered horizon.

芭卡洛儿：我永远也不会回到那儿——！
Barcarola: I won't force myself back into their little world!

淑女格蕾丝：我很欣赏你的坚决。
Ms. Grace: Your determination is admirable indeed.

芭卡洛儿：……看来我不必担心遭到解雇了。
Barcarola: Glad to hear it. Then my position is safe for another day.

淑女格蕾丝：当然，“自由海风号”上的明珠，我们最受人追捧的游轮甜心。
Ms. Grace: How could it not be? You are the very star of the "Free Breeze."

芭卡洛儿：嗯哼～
Barcarola: Uh-huh!

难掩得意的芭卡洛儿小姐脸上又重新焕发了光彩。
Barcarola's face lights up with renewed pride.

图图石子：那么您呢……？格蕾丝女士。
Fatutu: What about you, Ms. Grace?

图图石子：您的故乡又在哪儿？
Fatutu: You've never told us about your home.

淑女格蕾丝：只是个毫无意义的小镇子罢了。
Ms. Grace: It's a place of little interest to anyone, not even worthy of naming.

船长的态度显然要比絮絮叨叨的乐手更加轻描淡写。
Her demeanor is far more composed than the rambling chatter of Barcarola.

芭卡洛儿：“真正的音乐大师应该抛去那些影响自己创作灵感的杂念”，是这样吗？
Barcarola: They say a musician must be free of attachments to be truly creative. Perhaps this is true of captains as well.

图图石子：不，不是这样的。
Fatutu: No. That can't be right!

图图石子：哥哥曾经告诫我，努库泰澳人决不能远离家乡太久。否则，我们的“象形贝壳”将会生出缝隙，多少努努胶水都无法弥补它的裂痕。
Fatutu: The Nukutai believe that to stray from our home is the death of the spirit. If we travel too far and too long, our Spirit Shells develop cracks that no amount of Nukuglue can mend.

图图石子：那是一种让人非常不好受的情绪。老人们都叫它……
Fatutu: And from these cracks come an intense sadness, the elders call it ...

图图石子：乡愁。
Fatutu: Home sick.

芭卡洛儿：失眠的水手们似乎常常提起这个词……接着，他们会邀请我为他们演奏一些我从没听说过的曲子，好在我的啪唧匣子里有数不完的乐器——
Barcarola: Homesickness—sì, we have this word as well. The sailors aboard often ask me to play the songs of their youth when they are missing their homes. So many different melodies. Thankfully, my Crackling Box has all kinds of instruments to suit their needs.

芭卡洛儿：它是一种疾病吗，就像是缺少橘子的坏血病之类的？
Barcarola: I imagine it must be difficult for your people now.

芭卡洛儿：请别担心，图图石子小姐。如果你也患上了这样的症状，我很愿意帮忙——就像你帮助船上的客人那样。
Barcarola: If you'd like, I could learn to play some of your songs and perform them. I'd be more than happy to help, after all you've done.

图图石子：嗯——！
Fatutu: That's kind of you.

图图石子：谢谢你，芭卡洛儿小姐，我们的族人一定很需要它！
Fatutu: I'm sure it will be of great help to us.

芭卡洛儿：这是乐手的使命～
Barcarola: I'm more than happy to help, Fatutu! It is my job, after all!

少女们的话题似乎永远没有尽头，但不时揉搓的双眼仍然清晰地证明着时间的流淌。
The girls' conversation seems to stretch on forever, but the increasing frequency with which they rub their eyes clearly marks the passage of time.

天光逐渐亮了起来，窗外织起了一条无边的蓝色绸缎。在缓缓驶向前方的汽笛声中，缎面泛起一圈圈动荡的褶皱。
Eventually, the sun climbs above the sea, painting its surface a satin blue, and, as the ship's horn sounds, gentle ripples spread across its surface.

淑女格蕾丝：时候不早了，女士们。
Ms. Grace: It appears the sun has caught up with us, ladies.

芭卡洛儿：——！
Barcarola: ...!

芭卡洛儿：天呐，居然已经到这个时候了！我的演出——
Barcarola: Mamma mia! The concert!

芭卡洛儿擦着惺忪的睡眼，瞄见了船长轻轻摇晃的怀表。恍惚间，她终于想起了另一件同样重要的事。
As she rubs her eyes, Barcarola catches a glimpse of the captain lightly shaking her pocket watch and remembers something equally important.

芭卡洛儿：我答应过星锑小姐，我会帮助她举办一场最好的海上摇滚音乐会……我还没有询问她需要什么音色呢！
Barcarola: I promised Ms. Regulus a rock-and-roll concert. But I haven't even asked her what instruments she needs!

芭卡洛儿：再见，格蕾丝女士，图图石子小姐。
Barcarola: Bye, girls!

在一阵急匆匆的踩踏台阶声中，少女的身影迅速消失了。
With hurried footsteps clattering down the stairs, Barcarola quickly vanishes.

图图石子：谢谢您陪我们聊了一整夜，格蕾丝女士。
Fatutu: Thank you for talking with us, Ms. Grace.

确认乐手的背影再也看不见之后，图图石子终于张了张口。
She has waited for Barcarola to be clearly out of sight before speaking.

淑女格蕾丝：不必道谢。我什么也没帮上你，图图石子小姐。
Ms. Grace: Don't mention it. I only hope that it was helpful for you.

图图石子：我……我还有最后一个问题。
Fatutu: I-I have one last question.

图图石子：您究竟是如何令自己变得如此坚定的？
Fatutu: I was wondering how do you stay so determined?

淑女格蕾丝：……
Ms. Grace: ...

LEE-12 三个音乐家 / Clashing Genres

躁动与兴奋的呼声统治了这里。
The air is buzzing with anticipation.

台上的少女欢呼雀跃，跳起欢快的扭扭舞。
Regulus stands on stage, cheering and dancing in a lively twist.

星锑：嗨！女士们、先生们，所有当下的和未来的摇滚乐迷们！
Regulus: Hello, "Free Breeze"! Listen up all my rock 'n' roll stars, fans, and wannabes!

星锑：欢迎你们来到这个时代最伟大、最美妙、最最最激情的摇滚现场——！！
Regulus: You lot are in luck, because you are about to experience the greatest, grandest, most radical rock 'n' roll party of the era!

客人众：喔——！
Guests: Woo-hoo!

星锑：嘿——那边还在打瞌睡的家伙们，趁现在，活动起来，让你们僵硬的骨头嘎嘎作响！
Regulus: Now get up on those feet and drag those little legs of yours on deck. Because it's time to get those old bones jumping!

星锑：当你们老了，坐在火炉边上吹嘘自己的时候，所有听说这个故事的人都会为你们的经历嫉妒得发狂！
Regulus: Just think, folks, one day you'll be sitting by a fireplace, telling your grandkiddies that you were here. This is the night you become a legend!

芭卡洛儿：嘿，星锑——
Barcarola: Hi, Regulus!

哒哒的脚步声急匆匆地奔向了这儿。
Barcarola bursts into the room.

星锑：你好，我亲爱的朋友～
Regulus: Well, if it isn't our star musician!

芭卡洛儿：这和我们说好的不一样，我原以为我们会做好更充分的准备……
Barcarola: This isn't what we agreed on. I thought we'd make our preparations together.

星锑：准备？
Regulus: Umm, what preparations?

芭卡洛儿轻拍胸膛，努力让自己的呼吸平稳下来。
Barcarola pats her chest as she tries to steady her breathing.

芭卡洛儿：是的。我们得先为船上的客人们分发调查问卷，根据客人们的品味挑选合适的曲目，还需要考虑曲目之间的流畅过渡，以及整个音乐会的节奏和情感变化……
Barcarola: To begin with, we must do a survey of our guests' musical preferences, then prepare a song list to match. Then we must carefully organize our transitions to optimize the flow of the concert.

星锑：等等、等等！
Regulus: Wait, wait, wait!

星锑：音乐会？我们可不是在举办音乐会！
Regulus: Arrangements? Concert? What are you on about? This is rock 'n' roll, love! A proper rock 'n' roll party!

——这是摇滚！摇滚！

芭卡洛儿：可克雷……之前的老师们不是这样说的……
Barcarola: No arrangements? No song list? This isn't what I was taught to do in Cremona.

芭卡洛儿：当我们拨下第一个和弦，吹响第一段旋律，我们便肩负起了对听众体验负责的使命。完整的表达才能让听众们跟上脚步，体验音乐的情感起伏和结构美……
Barcarola: As musicians, we have a responsibility to ensure that every listener enjoys an exquisite and seamless experience. We must allow them to savor the emotion and artistry of each piece!

星锑：摇滚乐从不在乎这些细枝末节，重要的是精神！
Regulus: Sounds a bit stuffy, doesn't it? C'mon, no reason to get all hung up on the details. Music is freedom! The only thing that matters in rock 'n' roll are the vibes!

毫无疑问，摇滚海盗对任何繁文缛节都深恶痛绝。
Regulus clearly holds no space for unnecessary formalities.

星锑：放松你紧绷的脑袋，我的朋友～然后，用力地甩动它们！
Regulus: You don't use your brain. You feel it in your heart, babe.

星锑：音乐课堂可学不到这些。
Regulus: Guess your miserable old music teachers never taught you that, eh?

游轮乐手的眉头紧蹙，又逐渐舒缓下来。
Barcarola furrows her brow, but eventually her expression relaxes.

芭卡洛儿：……好吧。
Barcarola: Fine.

芭卡洛儿：但我必须声明，仅此一次。
Barcarola: But just to be clear, next time we do it my way.

星锑：喔——所有的音乐大师都该学习你的胸怀！
Regulus: Ha! Cheers, love. You're an inspiration to musical directors the whole world over!

芭卡洛儿：……
Barcarola: ...

这当然是一句效果斐然的咒语。
Flattery is often more effective than any incantation.

芭卡洛儿：咳、唱片机就在舞台帘幕的后面，第五个柜子里。
Barcarola: You can find the record player in the locker backstage.

得到特许的海盗激动地向目的地奔去。
Regulus immediately darts backstage.

星锑：喔哦——！
Regulus: Fab!

关闭灯光。
Turn off the lights.

连接音响系统，检查唱针，挑选出一张备受期待的唱片。
Connect the sound system, check the stylus, pick a record.

定位音臂，高举双手，等待一场——
Position the tonearm, raise your hands high, and get ready for a—

芭卡洛儿：星锑小姐，你播放的是重金属曲目吗？
Barcarola: Is this what you call "heavy metal"?

星锑：什么？我选中的明明是迷幻摇滚的代表作之一！
Regulus: Uh, what's that? No, no! First up is an iconic taste of psychedelic rock!

星锑：更何况，我还没找到音响电源呢……
Regulus: Uhh. But I haven't even found the power socket yet.

金属碰撞的震响声从下层甲板传来，它们愈发嘈杂，也愈发清晰。
The clanging of metal echoes from the lower decks, growing louder and clearer.

随之而来的还有某种奇异的怪叫声。
Then, an eerie, otherworldly shrieking follows.

像是一场发生在“自由海风号”上的突兀地震。
Followed by what feels like an earthquake.

厅堂中的客人们面面相觑，警觉的助手小姐敏锐地觉察到了些许异样。
While the guests exchange uneasy glances, Sonetto has sensed that something is amiss.

十四行诗：司辰，您也对这种噪音感到耳熟吗？
Sonetto: Timekeeper, those sounds are familiar, aren't they?

维尔汀：金属，打击乐，刺耳的怪叫，难道是……
Vertin: Metallic percussion sounds, sprinkled with screams of pain ...

维尔汀：重塑之手！
Vertin: It's Manus Vindictae!

随着这个熟悉的名词一同出现的，是那些黝黑的古怪铁皮们。
Those blackened, bizarre metallic creatures rear their heads once more.

重塑·门徒：ㄞ——！！筛选……
Disciple of the Manus: *roar* Sift ...

源源不断的铁皮乐器们从下层的楼梯间涌出，像是从井口喷薄而出的石油。
A torrent of metal instruments surges up from the stairwells to the lower levels, like oil gushing out of a pipe.

重塑·门徒：……试……炼！ㄢ——！！
Disciple of the Manus: And ... trial ...! *roar*

突如其来的变故让客人们炸开了锅。
The sudden commotion sends the guests into an uproar.

人群开始窃窃私语，退缩着挤成一团。
They huddle together, whispering nervously to one another.

星锑：什么？！怎么哪儿都有你们这些阴魂不散的家伙！
Regulus: What?! These persistent pests again?! Which hellhole did they crawl out of this time?!

芭卡洛儿：别担心，星锑小姐，我不会让他们影响你的音乐会的！
Barcarola: Don't worry, Ms. Regulus. I won't let them disturb your rock party!

气势汹汹的乐手冷静地站在了对方的面前。
She stands calmly but fiercely before them.

芭卡洛儿：嘿，格蕾丝船长明明向所有人保证过了，她绝不会让你们这些笨手笨脚的船员吓坏客人！
Barcarola: You oafish barnacles are ruining the atmosphere and scaring our guests! I very much doubt you're doing this with the approval of Captain Grace.

芭卡洛儿：你们应该乖乖地待在机械室，管好那些发动机和螺旋桨，而不是跑到甲板上来制造噪音——！
Barcarola: You should be working in the engine room, not making noise up on deck!

芭卡洛儿：难道你们忘记了《船员守则》吗？
Barcarola: Have you all forgotten the Seafarers' Code of Conduct?

对方似乎毫不动容，意识到危机的基金会调查员们挡在了芭卡洛儿的前面。
They appear unmoved. The Foundation's investigators step forward, immediately taking command of the situation.

维尔汀：注意疏散人群，十四行诗，星锑。
Vertin: Sonetto, Regulus, get the crowd out of here.

维尔汀：准备拦截重塑之手。
Vertin: Get ready to engage with these Manus thugs.

十四行诗：明白！
Sonetto: Understood!

十四行诗：芭卡洛儿小姐，请远离它们！
Sonetto: Ms. Barcarola, I'll ask you kindly to step back from these brutes.

芭卡洛儿：十四行诗小姐，它们只是些长相古怪的轮机工罢了。请放心，我会处理好这一切的。
Barcarola: Please, Miss. There's no need for alarm. I know they may look a little strange, but they're just engine crew. They work here.

芭卡洛儿：维持“自由海风号”的秩序，令每一位客人都能维持美好的心情，是游轮乐队的职责之一。
Barcarola: And as such, as our musical director, I have some authority over them. Moreover, it is my duty to ensure all our guests have a safe and enjoyable stay.

维尔汀：……我想我明白重塑是如何隐藏踪迹的了。
Vertin: Now I see how the Manus kept themselves hidden.

人群仍然惴惴不安，图图石子被迫挤在当中。
Fatutu quickly finds herself trapped amid the restless crowd.

她努力踮起脚尖，无数漆黑的阴影与明亮的日光交叠在一起，令人眼花目眩。
She stands on tiptoe, dazzled by the countless overlapping shadows and rays of sunlight.

图图石子：芭卡洛儿小姐……她在做什么呢？
Fatutu: Is that Barcarola? What's she doing over there?

在无数道或好奇或惊异的目光中，一抹纯净的白缓缓靠向了那摊石油。
Amid curious and astonished gazes, Barcarola gradually approaches the dark mass of Manus followers.

芭卡洛儿：嘿！如果你们也希望接受一些音乐上的熏陶，提高一点儿音乐品味，我可以在这一场演出结束后为你们演奏……但不能是这儿。
Barcarola: If you've come to be entertained, or perhaps for some music lessons, I would be more than happy to assist you in the crew quarters later.

芭卡洛儿：大多数客人对金属乐的理解并不多，你们应该照顾更多的普通人……
Barcarola: However, your musical talents will not be needed at this time, as we already have a scheduled performance.

重塑·门徒：ㄒ……新时——！！
Disciple of the Manus: *roar* New ... era—

似乎对芭卡洛儿的建议置若罔闻，一柄敲击锤高举了起来。
No heed is taken. Instead, a hammer is raised high.

维尔汀：阻止它们！
Vertin: Stop them!

越来越多的重塑门徒挤满了大厅的外围，人们如同被圈养的羊群瑟瑟发抖。
More and more Manus disciples fill the perimeter of the hall, surrounding those inside like trembling penned sheep.

芭卡洛儿：这、这不对……为什么这些新招募的船员，看上去这么疯狂呢？
Barcarola: W-What's happening!? Why are they acting crazy?

她努力站在所有客人的前方，大口呼出的热气喷薄在微微颤抖的啪唧匣子的琴颈上。
She stands resolutely, putting herself between the guests and the crazed Manus disciples, her heavy breathing condensing on the neck of her Crackling Box.

芭卡洛儿：我是“自由海风号”的乐队负责人……我有义务对每一位客人的安全负责……
Barcarola: As the musical director of the "Free Breeze," I can't allow you to harm our guests.

？？？：哼……聒噪的外族人。
???: Hmph, enough of your nonsense, foolish outsider!

一道冷光嗖地袭来。
A flash of cold light streaks through the air.

图图石子：不——！
Fatutu: No!

图图石子：“ *坚硬如椰壳！ ”
Fatutu: *Popo protect!

贝壳状的波纹拦下了那支冰冷的箭羽。
A shell-shaped ripple appears, deflecting the icy arrow.

芭卡洛儿：——！
Barcarola: ...!

图图石子：你没事吧……芭卡洛儿小姐？
Fatutu: Are you okay, Barcarola?

她蹿出人群，关切地奔向那个受惊的身影，罔顾身后数道讶异的目光。
Fatutu darts out from the crowd, rushing over to Barcarola with no regard for the surprised stares of the Nukutai behind her.

？？？：……你在做什么？
???: What are you doing, Fatutu?!

？？？：图图石子，你还记得自己的身份吗——！
???: That is an outsider! Have you forgotten your duty to your people?

熟稔的严厉训斥在耳边炸响。
A stern, familiar reprimand booms in her ears.

扶稳并无大碍的乐手后，图图石子紧张地转过身来。
After steadying the shaken musician, Fatutu nervously turns around.

哥哥的身体隐没在人墙的阴影里，令人心生紧张。
Her brother's figure looms in the shadows of the crowd. For the first time, this image deeply unsettles her.

图图石子：不……哥哥……不是这样的……
Fatutu: No, never, but ...

图图石子：努库泰澳人……保护家园的武器……不应该用来复仇……
Fatutu: Kamuta, this is not defending our home, and it doesn't feel like avenging it either.

图图石子：我们遭、遭受的一切……不关他们的事……也、也许……我们能找到更好的解决办法……
Fatutu: What we suffered was not these people's fault! There has to be a better solution to all this!

图图石子：……现在还不是复仇的好时候。
Fatutu: This isn't our way. It isn't right.

脚步声缓缓逼近，图图石子惊惶地仰起头来。
Fatutu stares fearfully as her brother draws closer.

正对上一张熟悉而陌生的脸。
As he comes into the light, she finds herself staring into a face that is both familiar and strange.

图图石子：哥哥……
Fatutu: Kamuta ...

卡穆塔：……
Kamuta: ...

对方轻轻摇了摇头，漆黑如墨的液体从古铜色面具的缝隙中滴落。
Kamuta gently shakes his head. Inky black liquid drips from the seams of his mask.

卡穆塔：图图石子，我们别无选择。
Kamuta: Fatutu, we have no choice.

LEE-13 太阳之死 / End of the Sun

金属的噪音取代了摇滚乐，肃穆与恐慌笼罩在船舱中的每一位客人脸上。
The sound of scraping metal brings an end to the pumping rock music, painting a look of solemnity and fear on the faces of every guest.

灵巧的身影款款登上了舞台。
A lithe figure steps gracefully onto the stage.

淑女格蕾丝：首先，为你们自己举杯吧——
Ms. Grace: We should raise a toast. One and all.

淑女格蕾丝：登上“自由海风号”的幸运儿们。
Ms. Grace: For we're in luck's good graces to be aboard this ship.

淑女格蕾丝：或者说，它应该拥有一个更准确的名字，诺亚方舟。
Ms. Grace: A ship, hmm, perhaps one ought to think of it more as an ark.

台下的游客们面面相觑。许久，终于有人试探着开口询问。
The guests exchange uneasy glances. After a long silence, one guest hesitantly breaks the silence with a question.

客人Ⅰ：格、格蕾丝船长……你是不是搞错了什么？
Guest I: Just what are you getting at?

客人Ⅱ：噢！我明白了，这一定是游轮为我们准备的惊喜派对，对吧，芭卡洛儿小姐？
Guest II: Oh, I get it! Is this some kind of surprise theme party, like a murder mystery?! Is that right, Ms. Barcarola?

茫然的乐手抬起头来。高台上的身影陌生而冷冽，这显然无关任何一场精心彩排的演出。
Barcarola looks bewildered. The captain's sudden and strange appearance on the stage was certainly not part of any performance. At least, not one she had prepared.

芭卡洛儿：不……不是这样的。
Barcarola: No, I didn't plan for any of this.

淑女格蕾丝：这当然能够称得上是一份惊喜，马修先生。
Ms. Grace: You aren't entirely wrong though, Mr. Matthews, for this is certainly a surprise, if not so much a party as a ceremony.

淑女格蕾丝：恭喜你们，诸位凭借着天赋、财富，或是某种秘不视人的珍宝，通过了“自由海风号”的第一次筛选，得到了一个加入重塑之手的机会。
Ms. Grace: Allow me to congratulate you, our honored guests. Each of you, with your unique talents, resources, and powerful connections, have earned a chance to join Manus Vindictae.

客人Ⅱ：您的话语太过晦涩难懂了，格蕾丝女士。如果这是一出情景剧，我希望您与您的道具演员们能立刻停止它，这一点儿也不好笑！
Guest II: If this is some kind of joke, Captain, I don't find it funny! So how about you knock it off!

淑女格蕾丝：您的意思是……您打算放弃前往新时代的宝贵名额？
Ms. Grace: There's no joke at all. Unless you plan on throwing away your precious opportunity to join us in the new era.

客人Ⅱ：什么新时代旧时代的……我半个字也听不懂！
Guest II: What the hell is that supposed to mean? Have you gone insane!?

满脸怒容的客人们正欲离开，脸覆面具的年轻人毫不客气地拦住了他们。
In their fear and anger, the guests make to leave, but a young man in a mask swiftly blocks the doorway.

托阿：不许污蔑我们的救世主——！
Toa: How dare you blaspheme our savior?!

塞洛尼：托阿……你太激动了……戴上面具之后，你就像完全变了个人……
Selone: Toa, ever since you put on that mask, you've been acting strangely, like a different person.

来自好友口中的古怪腔调格外刺耳。
She can hardly recognize her dear friend at all.

托阿：自从离开麦黎以后，我从没感觉脑袋如此清晰过……塞洛尼。
Toa: You're wrong, Selone! I was lost after we left Meli. But now, I've never felt so certain of myself.

托阿：你也应该为之后的面具试炼多做些准备的。我可不希望到了新时代之后，我们在独木舟赛上落败。
Toa: You must ready yourself for the mask trial, too. We must all be willing to sacrifice to bring our people into the new era!

他骄傲地拍了拍胸膛，居高临下地蔑视着瑟瑟发抖的众人。
He proudly pounds his chest as he glares disdainfully at the trembling crowd before him.

托阿：而他们，这些愚昧无知的外乡人……哼，他们永远不会理解自己做错了什么，又将会承受什么样的惩罚！
Toa: As for these ignorant outsiders, hmph, they will never understand the depth of the crimes they've committed or the punishment they deserve!

卡穆塔：托阿，冷静点儿……没必要理会这些家伙，他们在乎的只有自己。
Kamuta: Calm down, Toa. Don't bother with these outsiders. They only care about themselves.

卡穆塔：——只有“暴雨”，才能够为我们改变这一切！
Kamuta: Only the "Storm" can bring the change we need.

古怪的面具、狂热的谶言、叮叮作响的畸形贝壳，在一台从未预告的舞台剧上尽情舞蹈着。
With bizarre masks, fervent prophecies, and the clinking of misshapen shells, they perform their unannounced stage play.

“观众”们瑟缩着挤作一团。
Its "audience" cowers together in fear.

客人Ⅰ：疯……疯子！
Guest I: Lunatics!

十四行诗：司辰，我听错了么？……那位先生在宣扬“暴雨”！
Sonetto: Timekeeper, it seems as though the islanders aboard are working with Manus Vindictae!

维尔汀：重塑之手一定还藏着更多的后手，我们必须尽快向外求援。
Vertin: There's no telling what else the Manus have up their sleeve. We need to call for support as soon as possible.

十四行诗：可我们的通讯器信号已经被阻断了……
Sonetto: But our communications are jammed.

维尔汀：星锑，你能联系上乌尔里希吗？
Vertin: Regulus, are you able to reach Mr. Ulrich?

星锑：把“小东西”还给我以后，它就喊着什么“声波频率”、“非对称核素R浓度”之类的话，抱着那台怪声怪叫的机器跑得没影了。
Regulus: I should be. I've got no clue where he's at now. He dashed off with the roaring machine, mumbling something about "sound wave frequency" and "nuclide R."

星锑：让我试试吧……如果我还能回想起科算中心的内部频段的话！
Regulus: Still, I might as well give it a shot, if I can still recall Laplace's internal frequency, that is.

维尔汀：十四行诗，我们必须尽可能安抚更多的人，以免出现更严重的混乱。
Vertin: Sonetto, we must calm the situation before things escalate further.

十四行诗：是——！
Sonetto: On it!

命令有条不紊地下达着。
Orders are issued methodically.

台上的女士饶有兴趣地望着那一抹融入人群的蓝灰色礼帽，无声地笑了笑。
Grace watches with interest as a navy top hat moves through the crowd. A gentle smile creeps across her face.

淑女格蕾丝：先生们，女士们。
Ms. Grace: Ladies and gentlemen.

淑女格蕾丝：也许你们还不理解，“暴雨”究竟意味着什么。
Ms. Grace: Perhaps you have yet to understand what the "Storm" really is.

客人Ⅰ：格蕾丝女士，我可是清楚地记得你们宣传单上的内容。
Guest I: No, perhaps we don't. Because I remember what you wrote in all the flyers!

客人Ⅰ：“自由海风号”采用了双壳体设计，配备了最先进的船稳系统与国际通信系统，确保在任何情况下都能与陆地基地和其他船只保持联系……
Guest I: The "Free Breeze" is equipped with a double-hull and the most advanced communication systems available, capable of contacting rescue and support under any circumstances.

客人Ⅱ：你们保证过任何恶劣的天气都不会对“自由海风号”产生任何损坏。
Guest II: Yeah, and something about a stabilizing system. Why should we be worried about some heavy weather?

客人Ⅱ：难道这些宣传语都不过是夸大其词吗——！
Guest II: Or were you lying to us?

淑女格蕾丝：它们当然是真的，马修先生。
Ms. Grace: Oh, the specifications of the ship are all very much true. No natural weather phenomenon could endanger us here.

淑女格蕾丝：但这些脆弱的、毫无意义的设备，又如何能抵挡一场真正的、足以倾覆世界的“暴雨”呢？
Ms. Grace: However, the "Storm" I speak of is not a mere matter of churning wind and thunder. And no double-hull nor stabilizing system could stand against it.

客人Ⅰ：……您口中的“暴雨”究竟是什么？
Guest I: So, what the hell is this "Storm"?

淑女格蕾丝：一台根治所有弊病的手术。
Ms. Grace: It is a cleansing—a deluge that will come to eradicate all the sickness of this world.

客人众：——！
Guests: ...!

淑女格蕾丝：它向我们索取一点儿无关紧要的代价，又一次次给予我们回到过去的机会。
Ms. Grace: And an opportunity, a chance to reverse our course. All that is asked of you is an insignificant price.

客人Ⅱ：回到过去……代价……您究竟在说些什么呀……
Guest II: Reverse? Price? What are you talking about?

淑女格蕾丝：在90年代，那些消费主义的血管都成了电线；80年代，愚笨的脑袋被变成了一个个立体几何。而60年代就更有意思了——
Ms. Grace: In the '90s, veins turned into wires. In the '80s, skulls turned into geometric shapes. Oh, and the '60s, what fun we had then!

淑女格蕾丝：整个世界都成了一幅可笑的广告画。
Ms. Grace: The entire world became a pop art spectacle!

淑女格蕾丝：而重塑之手，为之奋斗了许多个年头。
Ms. Grace: And Manus Vindictae have seen us through each one, for all these many years.

人群的低语声越发汹涌。
The crowd's murmuring grows louder and more chaotic.

客人Ⅰ：您的意思是，这个时代也会毁灭——
Guest I: So, you're saying that the world is going to be transformed?

客人Ⅰ：连我、我们的脑袋也会变得……如此古怪吗？
Guest I: And something weird will happen to our bodies, too?

淑女格蕾丝：很遗憾，是的。
Ms. Grace: You're exactly right.

客人Ⅱ：这些都是重塑之手的手笔？……你们为什么要这么做？
Guest II: And the Manus were behind all of this? Why?!

淑女格蕾丝：您不该苛责我们的，马修先生。重塑已经尽了最大的努力。
Ms. Grace: Now, now, don't be so harsh on us. We've made heroic efforts to cleanse this world of its sickness.

淑女格蕾丝：地球上的人换了一批又一批，可他们总会犯下同样的错误。经济崩溃、环境污染、数不清的战争与硝烟……
Ms. Grace: But each generation keeps making the same mistakes: economic collapse, environmental crisis, endless wars and bloodshed ...

淑女格蕾丝：于是我们不得不一次又一次地进行新的手术，迎接一场新的“暴雨”——
Ms. Grace: We had no choice. The wounds of this world must be cleansed. One deluge at a time. Now, we are welcoming a new "Storm."

淑女格蕾丝：以回到更遥远的过去。
Ms. Grace: One that will reverse us to an even more distant past.

惊惧与恼怒相互渗透着迸出火花，有如随时迸发的火山口。
Fear and anger intertwine. The crowd is like a volcano on the verge of eruption.

客人Ⅲ：格蕾丝女士，我很确信，你现在需要一场心理治疗。
Guest III: You're a lunatic, Captain. You need your head examined.

客人Ⅲ：只有心理医生才会附和你这套灭绝人性的说法——！
Guest III: Lady, you need a psychiatrist!

客人Ⅳ：……
Guest IV: ...

客人Ⅳ：您所展示的这些……它们都是真的么？
Guest IV: But these things you're showing us ... they really happened?

淑女格蕾丝：关于这一点，你很快便能见证了。
Ms. Grace: No need to take my word for it. You will all bear witness to it soon.

人群惶悚不安。在近乎鬼魅的低吟中，连窗外泛起的海浪声都清晰可闻。
The crowd descends into a hushed panic. Every lapping of the waves can be heard amid their almost ghostly murmurs.

一个稳定人心的好时机。
This is the perfect moment to calm the crowd.

维尔汀：“暴雨”绝不会在现在发生。
Vertin: The "Storm" is NOT coming.

维尔汀：我们来自圣洛夫基金会。
Vertin: We are from the St. Pavlov Foundation—

维尔汀：一个……维护人类与神秘学家安全与权利的机构。
Vertin: An organization dedicated to the protection and rights of humans and arcanists.

淑女格蕾丝：呵。
Ms. Grace: Huh.

客人Ⅰ：……是那个官方组织！
Guest I: Ah, thank goodness!

维尔汀：我以圣洛夫基金会的“司辰”身份保证——
Vertin: As the Timekeeper of the St. Pavlov Foundation, I can assure you:

维尔汀：目前发生的一切，只是重塑之手捏造的骗局。他们希望通过仇恨与极端的言辞、夸大其词的恐吓，引导出我们内心对于未知事物的恐惧！
Vertin: What she showed you won't happen here. Manus Vindictae are just trying to manipulate you into buying into their deception and hatred. Don't give in to this false fear!

维尔汀：请大家冷静下来。
Vertin: Please, everyone, remain calm.

相似的竹制利箭又一次袭来。
Another bamboo arrow shoots through the air.

托阿：维护我们的安全，胡说八道——！
Toa: Protect us? You? Don't make me laugh!

一旁的女孩赶紧拦下急躁的同伴。
Fatutu doesn't hesitate to stop him.

图图石子：托阿……等等！
Fatutu: Toa, wait!

图图石子：如果她没有说谎，说不定……说不定基金会也能帮上我们的忙！
Fatutu: She seems trustworthy. Maybe we should listen to what they have to say.

托阿：图图石子，这就是你准备好的重建家园的“完美”计划吗？
Toa: Really? You think these people care about rebuilding our home?

托阿：要、要是他们真像自己夸耀的那么伟大，那努库泰澳、我们的家园被淹没的时候，他们又在哪里——？！
Toa: Were they there when Nukutaeao was hit by the great waves? Where was their protection then?

图图石子：不是的……我只是不希望大家做出草率的判断……不希望大家的贝壳上……出现更多斑驳的划痕……
Fatutu: I'm not sure, but I just can't bear the thought that we might make a decision we'll regret later. I don't wanna see any more cracks and scratches on our shells.

少女的失声抵不住船上客人们的窃声私语，更无法阻止族人们高涨的怒火。
Her cries cannot overpower the murmuring of the guests, nor can they quell the rising fury of her kin.

当然也抵挡不住任何一支急促飞来的毒箭。
And they certainly cannot stop another poison arrow.

十四行诗：*Ed è sübito sera——！
Sonetto: *Ed è sübito sera——！

十四行诗：场面快要失控了，司辰小心！
Sonetto: This is getting out of hand. Be careful, Timekeeper. They're coming for us!

大厅一片狼藉。
The hall is in utter disarray.

喘息声、叹气与低声的哭腔混杂在一起，像是一锅粘稠的复合汤药。
Labored breathing, sighs, and sobbing blend together like a sickly pot of thick stew.

图图石子：不……这样是不对——
Fatutu: No. This isn't right.

她还想说些什么，一阵熟悉的草药熏香猛然窜入了她的鼻腔。
She wants to say more, but the familiar scent of herbal incense suddenly overwhelms her.

安睡芦苇，在努库泰澳祭司的手术台上，它被用于减轻不必要的痛苦。
Sleepy Reeds—a herbal anesthetic used by Nukutai priests during surgeries.

卡穆塔：你需要休息，图图石子。
Kamuta: I think you need some rest, sister.

图图石子：……！
Fatutu: ...!

塞洛尼：抱歉，图图石子。
Selone: I'm sorry, Fatutu. This needs to be done.

昏迷的女孩落入另一副柔软躯体的怀中。
Selone catches her as she falls unconscious.

而另一端的争执显然要剑拔弩张得多。
The ongoing confrontation on the other side of the hall is evidently far more intense.

淑女格蕾丝：演讲很精彩，维尔汀小姐。
Ms. Grace: A fine speech, Ms. Vertin, such delectable righteous indignation.

维尔汀：放弃吧，格蕾丝女士，你欺骗不了任何人。
Vertin: Surrender, Ms. Grace. Your lies will not succeed here.

淑女格蕾丝：当然。连再小的孩子也明白这样一个浅显的道理：当谎言被揭穿时，说谎的人将遭到何等剧烈的反噬……
Ms. Grace: Why, of course. To tell a lie brings the harshest of consequences, even a kindergartener knows that.

格蕾丝环顾四周，无数道目光死死地盯着她。
Grace surveys the hall. Countless eyes are fixed on her.

愤怒、敌视、迷惘，鄙夷，她从中走过，不留下丝毫痕迹。
Anger, hostility, confusion, disdain—she has walked through it all before and never left a trace.

维尔汀：……
Vertin: ...

维尔汀：各位，我的手表能够预测“暴雨”，从它的读数就能——
Vertin: Everyone, whenever there's an imminent "Storm," my watch here starts a countdown, but there have been no signs of—

她高举手臂，另一只苍白的手却突兀地搭在了她的手上。
Grace places a delicate hand on her raised arm, interrupting her speech.

淑女格蕾丝：多么巧合啊，维尔汀小姐～我也有一块记录时间的怀表。
Ms. Grace: What a coincidence, Ms. Vertin. I so happen to have a similar device myself.

淑女格蕾丝：……
Ms. Grace: ...

淑女格蕾丝：三。
Ms. Grace: Three.

淑女格蕾丝：二。
Ms. Grace: Two.

维尔汀：——！
Vertin: ...!

淑女格蕾丝：一。
Ms. Grace: One.

维尔汀：——这不可能！
Vertin: Impossible!

淑女格蕾丝：维尔汀小姐。
Ms. Grace: Ms. Vertin.

淑女格蕾丝：……试图以谎言与虚假承诺蒙骗所有人的，究竟是谁呢？
Ms. Grace: As you said, lies will not succeed here. The question is, who here is the liar?

淑女格蕾丝：女士们，先生们。好好珍惜眼前的一切吧。
Ms. Grace: Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to relish the sight before you.

淑女格蕾丝：我们迎来了……
Ms. Grace: Here we are ...

淑女格蕾丝：地球上最后的夜晚。
Ms. Grace: The last evening on earth.

LEE-14 紧急通讯 / A Call for Help

奔走的仓促身影堪堪避过了眼前的又一个集装箱，任由磁流体在缸中激烈地震荡。
The figure running down the corridor narrowly avoids another container, the ferrofluid violently swirling in his tank.

乌尔里希：见鬼，这儿就不能把这些灰扑扑的壁灯都换成卤素灯和荧光灯吗——！
Ulrich: Flux's sake, I can't work under these dim lights. Could this cheapskate cruise liner not spring for some decent halogens or fluorescents?

乌尔里希拎着手提箱在走廊上快步前行，里面的非对称核素R采集仪嘀嘀作响。
Ulrich briskly makes his way down the corridor, the asymmetrical nuclide R collector inside his briefcase buzzing loudly.

采集仪：嗡嗡——嗡嗡嗡——！
Collector: Bzz ... BZZZ ... BZZZZZZ!

乌尔里希：果然没错，越靠近这里，采集仪的指针跳跃得就越紊乱——必须尽快搞清楚这艘船当前的坐标！
Ulrich: Just as I expected. The closer I get, the more erratically the collector's gauge reacts. I must pinpoint this ship's current location as soon as possible!

乌尔里希：不、读数不对……该死的，难道它被海水腐蚀了吗？！还是说，这片海域里就存在一座“非对称核素R”的矿场？
Ulrich: Wait, the readings are a bit off. Ugh, is it because of the seawater?! Or is there an abundant load of nuclide R in this area?

它猛然蹲下身来，用力拍打箱子里的仪器。
He crouches down, laying the suitcase on the ground and pounding on it.

采集仪：———/*&@！#*（！
Collector: ———/*&@!#*(!

乌尔里希：**的[拉普拉斯脏话]，负责维护这台玩意儿的到底是哪个蠢蛋！
Ulrich: This thing must be broken. When I get my hands on the engineers responsible for maintaining this, I swear I'll—

乌尔里希：冷静想想，乌尔里希。你是不是还漏了什么重要信息……
Ulrich: Calm yourself and think, Ulrich. Did you miss anything crucial?

乌尔里希：——！
Ulrich: ...!

乌尔里希：船舱底部的电力供应室存在几摊不明黏液，尽管只经过了简易的提取处理，但样品的折光率与红外光谱都与重塑之手高度吻合。
Ulrich: Ah, yes! The oily slime in the power supply room. A rudimentary test showed that its refractive index and infrared spectrum closely matched our samples from Manus Vindictae.

通讯器：滴——滴滴——
Communicator: Beep beep! Beep beep!

突兀响起的通讯器打断了乌尔里希的沉思。
The ringing of the communicator interrupts his thoughts.

乌尔里希：嗯……星锑？
Ulrich: Huh, who's calling? Regulus?

星锑：乌尔里希组长，我终于联系上你了！
Regulus: Finally! I've been trying to reach you for a while now, Ulrich!

乌尔里希：你是来关心“人工暴雨”项目的？没那么快，实验暂时卡住了，我还不需要协助人手。
Ulrich: Calling to check on the "Artificial Storm" project, are you? I still have a way to go. I'll call you when I need a hand or two.

星锑：不、不不——！尽管原则上我和维尔汀都应该援助你的行动，但现在——
Regulus: No, no, no! I'm afraid I'm not offering you a hand. I'm asking for one!

星锑：你先来救救我们吧，组长——！这儿出现了好多重塑之手！
Regulus: We need you topside you fabulous Fish Tank! There's a gang of Manus thugs here!

乌尔里希弹射了起来。在刺耳的电流声里，它准确地抓住了最关键的信息。
Ulrich leaps to his feet. Amid the static, he has caught the most crucial piece of information.

乌尔里希：重塑之手……
Ulrich: The Manus ... huh ...

乌尔里希：他们的面具里一定保存着不少非对称核素R。说不定，我完全不需要这个时灵时不灵的鸟机器了！
Ulrich: There's sure to be a considerable amount of nuclide within their masks. Perhaps I don't need this unreliable scrap of metal after all!

乌尔里希：立刻向我报告坐标，星锑研究员！
Ulrich: Send me your location straight away, Regulus!

乌尔里希：重塑之手在哪儿？！
Ulrich: Where are these Manus thugs?!

黑压压的一片挤满了乌尔里希的全部视野。
A surging dark mass of people blocks Ulrich's view.

乌尔里希：该死的，这儿的人也太多了！
Ulrich: Flux's sake! This is a bigger crowd than I expected!

发亮的“灯泡”在人群中过于晃眼了，人们颤抖着后退。
His "bulb" stands out amidst the crowd, causing the spread of a new panic as they retreat from him.

客人Ⅰ：它是谁……？！
Guest I: Who is this walking lightbulb?!

客人Ⅱ：天呐——我、我可不想变成灯泡脑袋！
Guest II: Oh, my God! I don't want to end up with a lightbulb for a head!

乌尔里希：嗯？你们在说——
Ulrich: Huh? What are you talking ab—

重塑·门徒：禁止……ㄨ——！
Disciple of the Manus: Stop ...! *roar*

组长灵巧地躲过砸下的铁锤，剧烈的思维电流迅速漫过了对方全身。
Ulrich nimbly dodges the hammer blow, intense electrical impulses surging through his body.

重塑·门徒：唔……
Disciple of the Manus: Uggghhh!

乌尔里希：很好，又是一剂非对称核素R！
Ulrich: There we are, another extract of asymmetrical nuclide R!

摩拳擦掌的组长正打算大展拳脚，等待解救的人质们及时地阻止了它。
Though poised to take action, Ulrich is promptly stopped by the pleading hostages.

星锑：组长，我们在这儿！
Regulus: Ulrich, we're over here!

乌尔里希：看来那边有更多的重塑库存——！
Ulrich: Wonderful, I should be able to extract even more over th—

然而，发声元件中的高呼在挤入人群的一瞬便戛然而止。
He is immediately cut short upon entering the crowd.

重塑·门徒：杀……ㄙ——！
Disciple of the Manus: Kill ...! *roar*

乌尔里希堪堪躲过一击，终于成功与组织会合。
Ulrich narrowly avoids another attack before finally reuniting with the others.

乌尔里希：星锑研究员，你可没说过这儿的重塑之手有这么密集！
Ulrich: This seems to be a bit more than a gang—closer to a horde, really. You understated your situation, Regulus!

维尔汀：感谢你的增援，乌尔里希组长。
Vertin: Your help is much appreciated all the same, Mr. Ulrich.

乌尔里希：我恐怕帮不上什么忙，司辰。和重塑之手打群架还没有被列入拉普拉斯组长的考核标准。
Ulrich: Help? Well, I'm afraid I won't be much help to you, Timekeeper. Fighting is far from my specialty.

星锑：什么？！
Regulus: Blimey!

摇滚海盗只觉前途一片渺茫。
Regulus feels utterly lost.

十四行诗：那些重塑之手似乎并不打算攻击客人们，它们只是想把我们圈禁在这里……
Sonetto: They seem to be corralling the guests. At least, they aren't hurting them for now.

维尔汀：格蕾丝打算在这儿募集新的重塑信徒。
Vertin: It isn't about hurting them. She wants to recruit more followers.

无数看不出情绪的钢铁目光冰冷地扫视着大厅里的人群。
Countless steely, emotionless eyes scan the crowd with icy precision.

星锑：——难道全世界就没有一艘既不属于重塑，也不属于基金会的自由小船儿吗！
Regulus: Is there a single ship in this whole bleeding world that doesn't belong to either the Foundation or the Manus?

维尔汀：乌尔里希组长，科算中心拥有能够作为辅助验证的“暴雨”预警技术吗？
Vertin: Mr. Ulrich, does Laplace possess any technology that could detect an imminent "Storm"?

乌尔里希：第二次“暴雨”后，我们曾开展过不少相关项目，但最终都以失败告终。
Ulrich: We made several attempts to do so in the aftermath of the second "Storm," but none of them proved effective.

乌尔里希：在这之后，“暴雨”相关的一切预警事由都交给了基金会，也就是你，司辰。
Ulrich: Since that time, we've become reliant on the "Storm" alerts from the Foundation, or more specifically, from you, Timekeeper.

维尔汀：格蕾丝宣称“暴雨”即将到来，她甚至成功预言了异象的出现……
Vertin: Ms. Grace claimed that the "Storm" was coming, and she managed to accurately predict the occurrence of the anomaly outside.

维尔汀：可我的手表却没有任何变化。
Vertin: Yet, my watch has shown no sign of an imminent "Storm."

雨点不时敲打着一片漆黑的舷窗，十四行诗不自觉地捏紧了衣袖上的口子。
Light rain is tapping on the porthole. Sonetto unconsciously tightens the cuffs on her sleeve.

十四行诗：我相信您的判断，司辰。
Sonetto: In any event, I believe in you, Timekeeper.

维尔汀：谢谢你，十四行诗，但我们必须说服更多的人。
Vertin: Thank you, Sonetto. But it isn't you that I need to convince. It's them.

环顾四周，无数恐慌、怀疑、敌视的目光不曾从她们身上挪开分毫。
Countless eyes filled with fear, suspicion, and hostility remain fixed on them.

乌尔里希：……
Ulrich: ...

乌尔里希：难怪非对称核素R的采集仪读数的显示失常了……
Ulrich: No wonder my readings were going wild.

乌尔里希：很抱歉，司辰。我无法否定“暴雨”来临的可能性。
Ulrich: Apologies, Timekeeper. Though nothing would make me happier than disproving Manus Vindictae, I can't deny the possibility that these phenomena are precursors to the "Storm."

这显然不是个令人安心的答案。
This is not a reassuring answer.

风在猎猎作响。
The wind howls fiercely.

海平面已经几乎看不见了。远处的海岛、风声与隐约可见的礁石溶在了一起，像是被抹上了一层更加漆黑的油彩。
The horizon has become almost completely obscured. Far-off islands and faintly visible reefs blend into one another, as if smeared with an even darker shade of paint.

人群三三两两地颓然坐倒，四周飘荡着隐约的抽泣声。
Amid the crowd, people slump to the ground, their sobs lingering in the air.

芭卡洛儿：大家……请冷静下来……
Barcarola: Please, everyone, listen. We have to stay calm!

努力倚靠着“啪唧盒子”站起身来，乐手重新拾起了自己的责任。
Struggling to her feet with the help of her Crackling Box, Barcarola rises to fulfill her duty once again.

芭卡洛儿：请相信我，相信“自由海风号”……
Barcarola: I ask you to put your faith in me, and in the "Free Breeze."

客人Ⅲ：早知道就不参加什么音乐派对了……
Guest III: I should have never come to this party.

客人Ⅳ：呜呜……我、我想回家，这儿太可怕了……
Guest IV: *sob* I want to go home! I'm scared.

客人Ⅴ：谁……谁能救救我们……
Guest V: Someone help us, please!

声嘶力竭的游轮乐手跌坐在地，苍白的呼吁声淹没在乱哄哄的人海里。
Barcarola's voice is utterly drowned out by the wails of the crowd.

芭卡洛儿：这、这究竟是怎么一回事呀……
Barcarola: What can I do to get these people's attention?

“咚——！”
*thud*

一声巨大的震响从船头的位置传来，晃荡的船身把许多人都甩在了地上。
A massive sound resonates from the bow of the ship, sending a vibration so strong that many are thrown to the ground.

惶恐的客人：发、发生什么了……！
Frightened Guest: What? What's happening?!

船舱广播：很抱歉，目前海面能见度低，视野受限，“自由海风号”将暂停一部分公共服务。
Cabin Announcement: Due to low visibility at sea, some public services on the "Free Breeze" will be temporarily suspended. We apologize for any inconvenience caused.

船舱广播：前方为暗礁区，覆盖范围约752海里。
Cabin Announcement: We are now entering an area of treacherous reef. During this time, there may be some sharp shifts in course.

客人众：……
Guests: ...

船舱广播：为了尽快抵达新的时代，我们将全速前进。
Cabin Announcement: In order that we might reach the new era as soon as possible, the "Free Breeze" will forge ahead at full speed.

船舱广播：请各位乘客务必减少大规模移动，抓稳扶手，以免落入海中。
Cabin Announcement: Please stay indoors and, in case of emergency, hold on to the handrails.

船舱广播：重复，请各位乘客务必减少大规模移动，抓稳扶手，以免落入海中。
Cabin Announcement: I repeat. Please stay indoors and hold on to the handrails.

惶恐的船员：格蕾丝船长，为什么“自由海风号”要在这么危险的情况下全速前进？！
Frightened Crew Member: Captain Grace, why in the world is the "Free Breeze" going full speed through these reefs?

淑女格蕾丝：当然是为了尽快抵达一个更美好的未来。
Ms. Grace: To embrace the future.

惊讶的船员：可……这样很可能会让“自由海风号”沉没！
Surprised Crew Member: But if we strike any of these reefs, the damage could be catastrophic!

淑女格蕾丝：在真正的“暴雨”前，这些又算得了什么呢？
Ms. Grace: Not as catastrophic as missing our chance to embrace the "Storm."

轻飘飘的话语被掷在了地上。
Her softly spoken words fall on deaf ears.

愤怒的客人：你这个该死的骗子，我不会再相信你的任何话术了！
Angry Guest: You deranged loon! I won't stand for this. You're just trying to scare us into joining your cult!

愤怒的客人：我要亲眼去外头看看，就现在！
Angry Guest: I'll bet there's no reef, no storm at all. This is trickery, and I intend to prove it!

淑女格蕾丝：如您所愿，先生。
Ms. Grace: Do as you wish, sir.

淑女格蕾丝：但请千万小心，外面的风浪很大。
Ms. Grace: Please watch your footing. The wind is howling outside.

船长礼貌地点了点头，大步朝着舱门走去的客人没有受到任何阻拦。
She gives a polite nod as the guest storms out of the cabin.

愤怒的客人：瞧，我现在不就好好地待在……
Angry Guest: Look, I'm standing firm as a bould—

客人踩在甲板上，像是在斯库拉巨岩与卡律布狄斯旋涡之间高歌的勇士。
The guest stands firm on the deck, like a warrior singing triumphantly between Scylla's cliffs and Charybdis' whirlpool.

直到一阵强风袭来。
That is, until he's struck by the power of the wind.

愤怒的客人：啊——
Angry Guest: Ahhhh!

拖长的痛呼声被暴风雨撕得粉碎，随后悄然隐没在一片漆黑中。
His scream is quickly drowned in the storm as he vanishes into the void.

客人众：……
Guests: ...

舱门再一次合拢了，呼啸的风声被挡在了唯一的安全居所之外。
One guest pulls the hatch closed again, blocking out the howling wind outside and returning their one safe haven to silence.

十四行诗：先生——！
Sonetto: The gentleman is gone!

维尔汀：格蕾丝，你这是在杀人。
Vertin: Ms. Grace, you murdered that man.

淑女格蕾丝：真奇怪，选择权不是在各位自己的手里吗？
Ms. Grace: What an utterly baffling accusation. Have I shot him, stabbed him? No. The choice was always in his own hands, wasn't it?

厅堂一片寂静。
The hall remains silent.

许久，有人战战兢兢地站起身来。
After a long while, one quivering guest steps forward.

惶恐的客人：格、格蕾丝小姐……只要我们加入了重塑，您便能拯救我们吗？
Frightened Guest: Captain, you said you'd save us if we joined Manus Vindictae, right?

淑女格蕾丝：拯救当然不是这么轻易的事，尤金先生……你还需要通过一场小小的考验。
Ms. Grace: It's not as simple as that, I'm afraid. But relax; there is only a small trial to pass, then the new era awaits.

顺着船长的目光，那张令人眼熟的古铜色面具无声无息地俯扣在桌上。
She gestures to an all-too-familiar mask sitting silently on the table.

淑女格蕾丝：试炼中，你只会感受到一点儿轻微的迷惘。
Ms. Grace: You may feel a little disoriented, but your body will be in no danger.

犹豫的客人：戴上面具后，我们真的会从这场噩梦中醒过来吗……？
Hesitant Guest: So, if we all put on these masks, then this nightmare will be over?

激进的客人：反正情况也不会比现在更糟糕了，不是吗？把面具给我——
Desperate Guest: Things can't get any worse than they are now, can they? Give me the mask!

胆怯的孩子：呜呜……
Scared Child: *sob*

淑女格蕾丝：当然，迷途的羔羊们啊，这将是你们对围栏最勇敢的一次翻跃。
Ms. Grace: O, lost lambs, this will be the bravest leap you've ever taken over the fence.

橘发姑娘勇敢地站起身来。
Sonetto turns to the crowd.

十四行诗：各位，不要再被重塑蒙蔽了。
Sonetto: Please, everyone. Don't fall for her lies!

十四行诗：你们被剥夺了真正的选择权，重塑在隐瞒事实！
Sonetto: She doesn't offer you salvation, but slavery! Don't give up your free will!

星锑：说的没错，我们是自由的，就像音乐！
Regulus: Listen to her! We've got to be free to choose for ourselves!

星锑：每一位听众都应该有自由选择的权利，不论是摇滚、布鲁斯还是古典乐，又或是一段噪音！
Regulus: Rock, blues, classical, or heavy metal—it doesn't matter! Each of us is our own melody! The Manus will take that from you!

乌尔里希：采取行动吧，司辰。
Ulrich: It's our turn, Timekeeper.

乌尔里希：乌尔里希，接受您的调遣！
Ulrich: I'm at your command!

维尔汀：优先安抚民众。
Vertin: Alright. Our priority is to bring the guests back to their senses.

信者与不信者有如天平的两端，再高声的呼喊也无法压过近在眼前的漆黑现实。
The guests remain in turmoil as the believers and skeptics argue among one another.

恐惧在人群之中迅速扩散，像是滴入水中的墨迹。
Fear and confusion quickly spread through them, like ink in water, and soon ...

成功的选民Ⅰ：哈哈——我戴上面具了！
Trial Taker I: Haha! I did it! I put on the mask!

成功的选民Ⅱ：我、我也得救了……
Trial Taker II: I-I'm saved!

成功的选民Ⅱ：感谢您，伟大的格蕾丝女士！
Trial Taker II: Thank you, thank you, Ms. Grace!

失败的选民Ⅰ：痛……太痛了……
Forsaken I: It hurts! It hurts so much.

失败的选民Ⅱ：格蕾丝女士，救……ㄥ——
Forsaken II: Help ... *roar*

十四行诗：糟糕，越来越多人倒向重塑之手了……
Sonetto: We can't let more of these people give in to their fears!

愈发式微的声音被淹没在汹涌的人潮之中。
Her voice is almost entirely drowned out by the roaring crowd.

卡穆塔：将这些死不悔改的家伙关押起来——！
Kamuta: These stubborn outsiders must be silenced! Take them away!

卡穆塔：努库泰澳的复仇大业，就从他们开始吧。
Kamuta: Let our revenge begin with them!

托阿：——是！
Toa: For Nukutaeao!

卡穆塔：塞洛尼，把我那不成器的妹妹送回房间。软弱蒙蔽了她的智慧，她的贝壳告诉我，她还不足以应付生活的剧变。
Kamuta: Selone, take my troubled sister back to her room. The softness of her heart has clouded her judgment, just as her shell shows.

塞洛尼：首领……
Selone: Chief ...

漆黑的墨渍几乎晕染了每一个人的脸。
Black ink seems to stain every one of their faces.

生活的剧变笼罩了努库泰澳人，当然也摧毁了更多无名的普通人。
The upheaval has engulfed the Nukutai along with countless other innocents.

无知的孩子：妈妈……我想回家……
Child: Mum, I wanna go home.

痛苦的母亲：好孩子，想点开心的事儿……
Grieving Mother: Just think of something happy, sweetheart.

痛苦的母亲：爸爸肯定为你买了新款的汽车玩具……只要戴上了面具……我们就能回家了……
Grieving Mother: Remember that toy your dad bought you? It's waiting for you at home. We'll be there soon. Just put this on. We'll be there soon.

在母亲颤抖的手中，那副面具缓缓贴向了孩子一无所知、泛着泪光的面庞。
Trembling, the mother slowly lowers the mask to her child's face.

芭卡洛儿：不——！
Barcarola: No!

恍惚了许久的游轮乐手本能般地扑上前去，将重塑面具推到一旁。
Barcarola lunges forward, knocking the Manus mask out of her hand.

淑女格蕾丝：打扰客人是相当不礼貌的，芭卡洛儿小姐。
Ms. Grace: I don't believe your job description permits you to interrupt our guests, does it, Ms. Barcarola?

芭卡洛儿：格蕾丝女士……“自由海风号”……我们的客人……这儿的一切都变得好陌生……
Barcarola: I don't understand, Captain Grace. Why are you letting this happen? Why are you doing this?

亲切的船长拾起了那副仍发着嗡鸣的面具，她细心地拭去上面沾染的灰，又不紧不慢地走上前来。
Grace carefully picks up the still-humming mask and brushes off the dust. She steps forward.

淑女格蕾丝：上前来，好姑娘——就像你一直站在“自由海风号”上那样。
Ms. Grace: Cheer up, dear girl. Hold that chin up high. Now that's the spirit, the brightest star of the "Free Breeze" forever and always.

淑女格蕾丝：瞧，马修先生、艾琳娜小姐、卡米拉女士……多少熟悉的客人们都在巴巴地张望着你呢？
Ms. Grace: Just take a look. Your loyal fans are waiting for your next show.

淑女格蕾丝：你不打算再为他们弹奏那些美好的歌儿了吗？
Ms. Grace: Won't you play some of those beautiful melodies for them again?

芭卡洛儿：格蕾丝船长，我不明白您说的那些……世界的疾病……“暴雨”……无比美好的新时代……
Barcarola: But Ms. Grace, what do you mean by the "Storm" and diseases of the world, and this new era?

淑女格蕾丝：当然是最简单的字面意思了～我们的海上明珠，万众瞩目的游轮甜心。
Ms. Grace: Oh, it's all so much simpler than you think, Ms. Barcarola.

淑女格蕾丝：那些糟糕的、令人厌烦的、你再也不想见到的东西都会消失得彻彻底底，连一点儿骨头渣滓都不会剩下——
Ms. Grace: In the new era, all that you hated in this time will vanish, as if it had never been there at all.

淑女格蕾丝：噢，就像克雷莫纳，古板陈腐的小提琴之乡，你发誓绝不会回去的地方……你不是一直讨厌着那儿吗？
Ms. Grace: The "City of Violins" you swore you'd never return to will soon be forgotten, washed away in the coming "Storm."

淑女格蕾丝：现在你总算有机会离开它了，永远地。
Ms. Grace: Your wish will come true. You'll never need return to it. You couldn't even if you tried.

芭卡洛儿：永远……？
Barcarola: Never again?

曾经熟稔的一切好似阴魂不散的幽灵，它们沉默着升腾起来，占领了脑海中的全部空档。
Memories of her home return to her as if she were there just yesterday.

高耸的大教堂与钟楼，吱呀作响的码头浮桥，从不曾记下她名字的克雷莫纳音乐节选手名单，遥遥飘来的托尔塔蛋糕与奶酪烩饭的香气。
The towering bell tower of the cathedral, the creaking footbridges of the dock, the Cremona Music Festival competitor list that never displayed her name, and the distant scent of torta and risotto.

像是一阵遥远的风儿，它与那张陈旧的成绩单与鲜红笔迹阔别了许久，却又偶然地、无比真实地在眼前呼啸着掠过。
She has been far away from that world for so long, yet there before her eyes, she sees it again: the report card scribbled with red ink soaring on the wind.

淑女格蕾丝：“如果留在那个糟糕的地方，便永远不会有芭卡洛儿和她的啪唧匣子了”——你正是这么说的，芭卡洛儿小姐。
Ms. Grace: What was it you said about that rotten little town? The monotony of sound, the disappointment of those old fossils and their little worlds—is that right?

芭卡洛儿：“我永远也不会回到那儿——！”……
Barcarola: Yes. I said I never, never wanted to go back.

淑女格蕾丝：这次可要拿稳它了，好姑娘。
Ms. Grace: Now, keep your hand steady this time, my dear. You must be certain.

金属与手背抵在一起，冰冷的触感让她打了个激灵。
Cold metal meets Barcarola's hand, jolting her back to reality.

微微发颤的手逃难般地抚上了怀中古怪而沉默的巨大乐器。
Her trembling hand reaches for her peculiar, silent instrument. She cradles it in her arms.

芭卡洛儿：啪唧匣子……
Barcarola: My Crackling Box.

黏合剂与木质结构的连接件，熟悉的触感令她安心。像是汲取氧气的运动员，她的手指贪婪地拂过上面的每一寸纹理。
The familiar texture of the adhesive holding it together reassures her. She runs her fingers over it before greedily moving on to the rest.

在繁复而精巧的乐器嵌合体中，她摸到了一个熟悉的轮廓。
Then, in the intricate structure of the instrument she created, she finds all the pieces of that familiar thing.

指板，琴弦边，音柱，琴桥，调弦器……
A fingerboard, strings, a sound post, a bridge, tuning pegs ...

一柄单调的小提琴。
A violin.

芭卡洛儿：不——
Barcarola: No!

一股不知从何而来的温度令她推开了那副面具。
A sudden warmth bursts forth within her, urging her to push the mask aside.

LEE-15 海风儿在翻阅 / A New Page Turned

塞洛尼：托阿，我们只需要把这些家伙关起来，而不需要……处决他们？
Selone: I-I'm confused, Toa. If these disbelievers are a danger to our vengeance, why are we only locking them up? Shouldn't we just toss them overboard?

托阿：没、没错！
Toa: T-The chief wants Fatutu to decide how to deal with them! A test of her allegiance and her conviction.

卡穆塔更希望图图石子成熟起来，由她来决定如何处置这些坏家伙！

托阿：当然，得在图图石子戴上面具之后。
Toa: After she puts on the mask, of course.

塞洛尼：……
Selone: ...

托阿：别害怕，塞洛尼，重塑的试炼并不困难。你瞧，我不也好好的吗？
Toa: You're afraid, Selone. Don't be. The trial isn't difficult. I see things so clearly now.

塞洛尼：我不知道，托阿，我不知道。
Selone: I don't know, Toa.

塞洛尼：卡穆塔的命令也许是对的，可我还是感到害怕……
Selone: I trust in Kamuta's leadership, but still ...

托阿：难道你要成为最后一批戴上面具的懦夫吗？！
Toa: Just like always. You're waiting for everyone else to test the water before you jump.

塞洛尼：我……我只是觉得这样不对……
Selone: I-I just feel that there's something wrong.

塞洛尼：托阿，你在握着锁链的时候，手指不也一直在发抖吗？
Selone: You say you're not afraid, Toa, but I hear your chains clinking. You're shaking, too.

托阿：闭、闭嘴——这儿可是冷库，难不成你认为我、我在害怕吗？！
Toa: Shut up! That's only because we're in a freezer!

一处令人熟悉的居所。
A familiar place.

星锑：天呐！难道我在20岁以前就能达成环游世界监狱的成就吗？——这都快超过我待在家里的时间了！
Regulus: Blimey, locked up again. At this rate, I'll have my "imprisoned on all seven continents" bingo card before I turn 20. It's an honest bet I've spent more time behind bars than my own home.

十四行诗：星锑，你也有自己的家吗？
Sonetto: I wasn't aware that you had a home, beyond the ship, I mean.

星锑：毫无疑问，朋友。整座伦敦城都是我的家。
Regulus: Course I do, love! The whole of London is my home!

星锑：我在那儿生活，为那儿无数的人们与他们热爱的音乐而战斗，你怎么能忽视那座城市在我灵魂上留下的烙印！
Regulus: I've walked its streets! I've inspired its people! I fought for its music! Its spirit's stamped on my very soul!

她振振有词地疾呼着，在不大的牢房里来回踱步。
She paces back and forth in the cell as she passionately proclaims her cause.

反叛艺术家常有如此激进的表现。
Rebellious artists often fall into such radical expressions.

星锑：伦敦永远都会为APPLe号留下一处停泊的港湾，以致敬——
Regulus: And jolly old London will always have a harbor open for this captain and her APPLe as a token of—wait, Barcarola, what are you doing here?!

等等，芭卡洛儿，你怎么在这儿？！

无比眼熟的古怪轮廓突兀地出现在监牢大门的窗口中。
A familiar silhouette appears in the prison door window.

星锑：该死的，我就知道这些铁皮脑袋不会放过任何一位艺术家，它们试图打压音乐品味远超它们的所有人——
Regulus: Well, I suppose those tinheads aren't the type to appreciate a true artist. Jealous of our talents, no doubt.

托阿：芭卡洛儿小姐……尽管你是格蕾丝船长口中的贵宾。但在正式加入重塑之手前，你不应该参与我们的行刑工作！
Toa: Ms. Grace said to give you special treatment, Barcarola. But I warn you, these prisoners are ours to deal with. So don't get any ideas!

星锑：……什么？
Regulus: What?!

星锑：芭卡洛儿？——你与那群音乐笨蛋同流合污了？！
Regulus: Barcarola, don't tell me you're siding with these tone-deaf goons!

铁门缓缓打开，星锑踉跄地退后了几步。
The door creaks open, and Regulus stumbles back a few steps.

映入眼中的并非令人眼熟的游轮甜心、优雅的演奏家，只是一副泪眼涟涟、甚至有些狼狈的无助脸庞。
What greets her isn't the familiar sweetheart of the ship, nor the elegant musician, but a tear-streaked, almost disheveled and helpless face of a young girl.

星锑：——！
Regulus: ...!

芭卡洛儿：我、我不知道……我的选择是对的吗……
Barcarola: I'm just confused. It seems like there's only one way forward, but ...

芭卡洛儿：格蕾丝女士告诉我们，“暴雨”会改变我们的时代，只有戴上面具的船员们才能免于回溯。
Barcarola: The captain said that only those who put on the mask have a chance to survive the "Storm."

芭卡洛儿：……而那些不被选召的可怜人，他们会和这个时代一同消失得无影无踪。
Barcarola: And that everyone else, the unbelievers, the forsaken ... will vanish.

维尔汀：……
Vertin: ...

芭卡洛儿：维尔汀小姐。
Barcarola: Ms. Vertin.

芭卡洛儿：请您告诉我，如果我真的戴上了面具……
Barcarola: Tell me the truth, please. What will happen if I put it on?

她的声音几乎脱力。
Her voice is almost entirely drained of strength.

芭卡洛儿：如果我真的抵达了格蕾丝女士口中的、那无比美好的崭新时代……我记忆中的街道，教堂与钟楼，邻居与朋友们的狗儿……
Barcarola: If I reach this beautiful new era Ms. Grace speaks of, what will happen to Cremona? The streets, the cathedral, all of the people I grew up with ...

芭卡洛儿：我……还能找回它们吗？
Barcarola: Will I ever be able to see them again?

维尔汀：很遗憾……
Vertin: The truth is ...

维尔汀：世界上仍会有一座名为“克雷莫纳”的小镇，但……
Vertin: After the "Storm," there may still be a Cremona, but ...

维尔汀：在你记忆中的每一张脸庞、每一首曲子，甚至是每一块砖瓦，它们都将变成另一种模样。
Vertin: Every face, every song, every brick from each house to the cathedral—will be different.

维尔汀：“暴雨”会冲刷走这个时代的所有痕迹。
Vertin: The "Storm" will wash away almost all traces of this era.

芭卡洛儿：……
Barcarola: ...

维尔汀：我希望你能帮助我们，芭卡洛儿小姐。
Vertin: But you can still help us, Ms. Barcarola.

芭卡洛儿：我……吗？
Barcarola: Me? How?

维尔汀：不论“暴雨”何时到来，我们都应该努力到最后一刻——
Vertin: No matter when the "Storm" arrives, we must fight till the last second.

维尔汀：让更多的人活下来。
Vertin: To help as many people survive as possible.

芭卡洛儿：我、我得好好想一想……
Barcarola: I-I need some time to think.

“哐——”
*bang*

门又一次被推开了。
The door slams open again.

塞洛尼：对“囚犯”的探视时间已经结束了，芭卡洛儿小姐。
Selone: Your visiting time is over, Barcarola.

塞洛尼：格蕾丝女士对你的优待并不包括住在监牢里，你必须马上离开。
Selone: Better not overstay your welcome.

芭卡洛儿擦了擦眼角的泪水，深吸了几口气，努力让自己平静下来。
Barcarola wipes the tears from her eyes, taking deep breaths as she tries to steady herself.

芭卡洛儿：女士，我还有最后一个问题。
Barcarola: I have another request.

芭卡洛儿：请告诉我，图图石子在哪儿？
Barcarola: Could you tell me where Fatutu is?

塞洛尼：……
Selone: ...

芭卡洛儿：别误会，我只是想去看看她，以一位朋友的身份。
Barcarola: I just wanna see her, is all, as a friend.

船长室显然不需要如外头一般酝酿某种刻意的可怖气氛。
The captain's cabin is calm compared to the carefully crafted atmosphere of fear and eeriness on the rest of the ship.

“咔嗒——”
*click*

旋钮被轻轻地拨动，切换到另一个更隐秘的频段。
A delicate hand turns the knob on the radio, switching it to a more secretive frequency.

？？？：祂已了然你的奉献。
???: THEY are well aware of your contribution.

淑女格蕾丝：我们追奉至高的福音，我们抛却骨肉与思想。
Ms. Grace: To follow THEIR divine guidance, we must be willing to renounce both body and mind.

勿忘我：做得很好，格蕾丝使徒。
Forget Me Not: Well done, Apostle Grace.

勿忘我：那些愚蠢的灰白帽子永远都在不遗余力地逗人发笑，居然误以为自己抓住了我们的小辫子……我都已经迫不及待见证他们捶胸顿足的夸张表演了。
Forget Me Not: To think those white suits are so sure they've caught us off guard. Oh, I can't wait to see the despair in their eyes when they fall flat on their faces.

勿忘我：“为本次调查行动的牺牲者默哀，他们是一座永恒的丰碑。”
Forget Me Not: I can imagine it now: "Let us all observe a moment of silence for those lost in our latest failure. Let us honor them as eternal monuments of our cause." How pathetic.

嘈杂的信号如实传递着对方情绪里的讥讽。
Despite the static, the ridicule in Forget Me Not's tone rings clear.

勿忘我：对了，听说一只科算中心的老鼠潜入了“自由海风号”？
Forget Me Not: Oh, and what about this Laplace rat that I hear has stowed away on board?

淑女格蕾丝：乌尔里希，本体为磁流体，是一位意识唤醒者。它参与了之前平衡伞的研发。
Ms. Grace: Yes, the Awakened ferrofluid sample named Ulrich—one of the major contributors to the creation of the Equilibrium Umbrella.

勿忘我：哼，希望平衡伞能帮上它的忙吧。
Forget Me Not: Hmph, let's hope his little umbrella keeps him dry.

勿忘我：否则，对于磁流体而言，这倒是一个回归故土的好时机了。
Forget Me Not: Because if he isn't careful, he may end up in much deeper waters.

淑女格蕾丝：另外，仪式材料的收集已基本完成，目前仅剩小部分材料尚未取得……我们正在加快推进新信徒们的重塑仪式。
Ms. Grace: The ritual materials are nearly assembled, and we are accelerating our recruitment.

淑女格蕾丝：努库泰澳的象形贝壳仍有部分欠缺。如果没能让他们的自我意识浸润在纯粹的负面情绪中，我担心会影响仪式的稳定性。
Ms. Grace: But the Nukutai Spirit Shells have yet to reach their most optimal form. It could hinder the stability of the ritual if they're not immersed in pure negative emotion.

勿忘我：尽管我们希望能得到更加完美的象形贝壳，但在必要的时候，贝壳本身才是最重要的，无论它们以何种形态存在。
Forget Me Not: Your commitment to quality is impressive, but the shells needn't be perfect to perform as needed. Do not waste time unnecessarily.

勿忘我：你明白了么？小格蕾丝。
Forget Me Not: Do you understand, Apostle Grace?

淑女格蕾丝：……
Ms. Grace: ...

勿忘我：我想你已经充分吸收了上一次失败的教训。
Forget Me Not: I trust you've learned from the last failure.

淑女格蕾丝：是的。
Ms. Grace: Yes.

勿忘我：很好，我们已经布设好了传送术阵，当你们的船抵达坐标后，立刻发动咒语……术阵时间有限，不要浪费时间。
Forget Me Not: Excellent. A teleportation array has been set up for you. But it will last only a short while. You must begin the ritual as soon as your ship reaches the target location.

勿忘我：重塑期待你的回归。
Forget Me Not: Manus Vindictae awaits your return.

淑女格蕾丝：谨遵祂的指引，勿忘我先生。
Ms. Grace: Yes, Mr. Forget Me Not. I will always follow THEIR guidance.

通讯器毫无征兆地失去了信号，徒留无休止的空洞回声。
The communication ends, leaving only the echo of the final words spoken through it.

苍白的手腕轻轻抬起，摩挲着一颗颗纹路驳杂的象形贝壳。
Grace raises a pale hand and gently caresses the intricate patterns on the Spirit Shells.

沉默笼罩了这片不大的空间。
Silence fills the room.

LEE-16 意大利之歌 / Barcarolle

十四行诗：*Ed è sübito sera——！
Sonetto: *Ed è sübito sera——！

十四行诗：不行……船舱的内壁似乎做了加固处理，我的神秘术根本无法打破它。
Sonetto: It's no use. The cabin's wall is heavily reinforced. My arcane skills can barely scratch it.

星锑：那个可恶的船长……难怪她没有收缴我们的武器！
Regulus: I guess that's why they didn't even bother taking our stuff.

星锑：乌尔里希组长，难道你没有随身携带什么神奇的、能帮助我们离开这儿的小发明吗？
Regulus: Ulrich, you've got to have some miraculous trinkets up your sleeve to bust us out, right?

星锑：你可是科算中心的骄傲啊！
Regulus: You're the pride of Laplace, after all!

乌尔里希：科算中心可不是什么暴力机构，星锑。
Ulrich: Laplace is not a circus, and I am no magician.

乌尔里希：但我确实携带了一些可能有效的工具。
Ulrich: But I may have something that can help.

乌尔里希：305.7千克爆炸当量的反应堆与纸莎草毛虫溶剂。
Ulrich: I have a small amount of TNT and some Papyrpillar Solvents.

乌尔里希：前者产生的冲击波大概会在炸开舱门之前先给我们的身子开几个洞。
Ulrich: The former can blast the door open; however, it will likely blast us to smithereens along with it.

乌尔里希：当然，后者就要安全得多了，我们需要做的只是将它们抹在墙上，然后在这儿静坐两天。
Ulrich: The latter is much safer, of course. All we need to do is apply it to the walls and then wait for a couple of days.

星锑：那我们是彻底完蛋了吗？
Regulus: We're abso-frigging-lutely screwed, aren't we?

乌尔里希：当然不是。
Ulrich: Don't be glum, Ms. Regulus. We aren't beat yet.

乌尔里希将那些显然难堪大用的工具们随手搁在一旁。
Ulrich sets aside the obviously useless tools.

眼下，它有了更重要的发现。
He has made a much more important discovery.

乌尔里希：司辰，看看这个吧。
Ulrich: Take a look at this, Timekeeper.

乌尔里希：我的数据箱记录了“自由海风号”从悉尼港出发以来的移动轨迹。
Ulrich: I've been recording the "Free Breeze's" heading since it left Sydney.

乌尔里希：遗憾的是，在启航一段时间后，我们的信号就遭到了屏蔽。
Ulrich: Though, unfortunately, something has been jamming our signal.

乌尔里希：坐标轨迹显示，“自由海风号”并没有像传单所宣传的那样回归意大利。
Ulrich: Yet, we can still extrapolate from my earlier readings that this ship is not heading to its advertised destination.

维尔汀：重塑的目的地难道是……
Vertin: It's heading steadily ...

维尔汀：——南方。
Vertin: Southward.

乌尔里希：很有可能。
Ulrich: It appears so.

维尔汀的思绪显然比磁流体的震动更加剧烈。
Her thoughts churn more violently than the ferrofluid's vibrations.

维尔汀：“暴雨”的预言、太阳的消失、重塑之手的面具试炼、“自由海风号”的加速……
Vertin: The forecast of the "Storm," the sudden eclipse, the mask trials, and the speed at which the "Free Breeze" is now heading.

维尔汀：如果重塑之手计划筛选出更优秀的信徒，他们理应为愿意戴上面具的人们留出更充分的准备时间。
Vertin: If all they wanted was to recruit more followers, they would allow for more time to convince the others.

维尔汀：如果“暴雨”即将到来，格蕾丝便不应该冒着巨大的风险授意“自由海风号”加速。
Vertin: However, if the "Storm" is indeed coming, then why would we be racing forward through these reefs?

维尔汀：重塑之手的行动并非为了筛选，反而更像是……
Vertin: Their actions don't seem to be aimed at recruiting nor at passing through the "Storm." Rather, they seem to be aimed at ...

乌尔里希&维尔汀：一种恐吓。
Ulrich & Vertin: Intimidation.

监牢里的空气似乎短暂地停滞了。
The air in the cell seems to momentarily stagnate.

乌尔里希：另一种可能是，“暴雨”本身便是一场巨大的骗局。
Ulrich: This would add weight to the possibility that the "Storm" they're promising is only a trick to inspire more fear.

乌尔里希：但很抱歉，身为科研工作者，我必须考虑“暴雨”发生的可能，哪怕微乎其微。
Ulrich: That said, we must consider the chance of the "Storm" occurring, no matter how slim it may seem.

乌尔里希郑重地站直了身子，它并未因为任何一种假设而动摇。
Ulrich stands tall, unwavering in the face of conjecture.

乌尔里希：在真正的答案出现以前，我们能坚信的，唯有手中的仪器与眼前的读数。
Ulrich: Until the truth is ultimately revealed, all we can rely on are the instruments in our hands and the readings before our eyes.

维尔汀：我赞成你的想法，乌尔里希组长。
Vertin: Then we're agreed, Mr. Ulrich.

维尔汀：不论“暴雨”来临与否，我们都需要做更全面的准备。
Vertin: Whether the "Storm" is coming or not, we need to be well-prepared.

乌尔里希：很高兴我们能达成一致。
Ulrich: I'm glad we're on the same page.

维尔汀：我们携带了不少平衡伞，箱子也能够作为临时的避难所。
Vertin: We've brought quite a few Equilibrium Umbrellas with us, and my suitcase can also serve as a temporary shelter.

维尔汀：它能够让神秘学家们免于回溯，但……箱子无法覆盖普通的人类。
Vertin: However, that will do nothing for the humans aboard.

乌尔里希：传闻居然是真的——？！
Ulrich: Your suitcase? Then the rumors are true!

乌尔里希：难怪一向保守的基金会也愿意让你独立组建一支小队。
Ulrich: No wonder the stick-in-the-mud Foundation greenlit you to build your own team.

乌尔里希久久地凝视着维尔汀手中的箱子。
Ulrich stares intently at the suitcase held in her hands.

乌尔里希：真希望有一天我能参与它的研究！
Ulrich: Ah, I would give anything to analyze it one day!

维尔汀：会有那么一天的。
Vertin: I'm certain that day will come, eventually.

维尔汀：十四行诗，我们携带了多少平衡伞？
Vertin: Sonetto, how many Equilibrium Umbrellas have we brought exactly?

十四行诗：……73柄。
Sonetto: Ermm. Exactly 73.

一个足以覆盖所有箱中同僚的数字。
A sufficient number to cover all the comrades in the suitcase.

但遗憾的是，它远远无法企及“自由海风号”上的近千名人类船员。
Unfortunately, it's far from enough to account for the nearly thousand people aboard the "Free Breeze."

乌尔里希：别垂头丧气的，姑娘们！
Ulrich: Cheer up, ladies.

乌尔里希：我们可不止这一条路。
Ulrich: Our hopes are not dashed just yet.

维尔汀：乌尔里希组长，我们人手不足，无法协助你的“人工暴雨”实验。
Vertin: Mr. Ulrich, you're not speaking of your "Artificial Storm" experiment, are you? We have neither the time nor personnel to assist you with it.

维尔汀：希望你能慎重考虑。
Vertin: And I implore you to consider the potential risks, especially in attempting it alone and under these conditions.

组长仍兴致勃勃地介绍着，丝毫没有在意对方的担忧。
Ulrich eagerly continues his explanation, heedless of his companion's concerns.

乌尔里希：多亏了那些石油脑袋，我从他们的面具里搞到了不少非对称核素R，已经足够完成余下材料的稳定性实验了。
Ulrich: Irrespective of your concerns, thanks to those oily heads and their quirky masks, I've acquired more than enough asymmetrical nuclide R to perform the immutability experiments.

维尔汀：可你似乎从未提及过实验的副作用，乌尔里希组长。
Vertin: But have you considered the side effects, Mr. Ulrich?

磁流体的运转停滞了一瞬。
The ferrofluid halts for a moment.

乌尔里希：……
Ulrich: ...

乌尔里希：好吧好吧，“人工暴雨”实验确实存在一丁点儿无可避免的副作用。
Ulrich: It's true. There is the risk of unavoidable side effects the experiments pose.

乌尔里希：我承认，在实验室里，我们能有充分的时间找到更合适的实验人员。
Ulrich: And I admit that, if I were in the lab, we would use much more time and caution.

乌尔里希：但在这儿，能感染时代病的只剩下我自己。
Ulrich: But on this ship, I am the only one capable of withstanding the effects of the Storm Syndrome.

看似平淡的语气却依然引来了新一轮的抗议。
Despite his seemingly calm tone, a new round of protestation is volleyed his way.

星锑：什么——？！
Regulus: Hold on, hang about!

星锑：慎重啊组长，你可是我们这儿唯一懂电子设备的人了！
Regulus: Have you gone right off the dock? We can't afford to lose you, genius! You're the only gadget guru we've got!

星锑：修好信号接收器可就全指望你了——！
Regulus: We're counting on you to fix the signal!

忧心忡忡的组员用力摇晃组长的脑袋。
She grabs Ulrich by the tank and frantically shakes it, sending the ferrofluid swirling inside.

乌尔里希：你在诅咒我吗？星锑研究员。
Ulrich: Mind the negativity, Regulus. I may be a scientist, but I'd rather not have the bad omens.

乌尔里希：时代病症状的表现并不稳定，可能是三个月，十五天，当然也可能只是几十秒……我的运气一向不错。
Ulrich: It does take time to recover from the Storm Syndrome. Indeed, it could be as long as three months, or a few weeks. But hey, it may well be just a matter of seconds. "Fortune favors the bold," you know.

星锑：那可是几十次实验啊——！
Regulus: But if I've learned anything at Laplace, it's that we'll need to do dozens of tests!

维尔汀：这太冒进了，乌尔里希组长。
Vertin: I agree with Regulus. Your plan is too reckless, Mr. Ulrich.

维尔汀：我们的当务之急是离开这里。
Vertin: Our priority should be to find a way to escape this ship safely.

她望向窗外，舱门口空无一人。
She looks through the cell door window. There's no one outside.

十四行诗：芭卡洛儿小姐……她会站在我们这一边吗？
Sonetto: What about Ms. Barcarola? Do you think she'll stand with us?

维尔汀：我相信她。
Vertin: She will. I have faith in her.

芭卡洛儿：伊……伊萨姆先生，请帮帮我。
Barcarola: Mr. Esam, would you lend me a hand, please?

舵手伊萨姆：什么风把你吹来了，我们最耀眼的小姑娘。瞧你身上，怎么沾上了这么多灰？
Helmsman Esam: What brought our brightest little star? Oh, look at you, out of breath and all covered in dust. What happened?

舵手老查理：别着急，大伙儿都在这儿呢～
Helmsman Charlie: Easy, easy, Barcarola. We're here to help!

热情的问候将狼狈的乐手包裹其中，一股温热的液体涌上眼眶。
The warmth of their greetings causes tears to well up in her eyes.

舵手乔瓦尼：发生什么事了吗？芭卡洛儿小姐。尽管按照规矩，咱们只能守在这个小舱室里，但这儿的老伙计都很乐意帮你的忙。
Helmsman Giovanni: That's right, Miss. Why don't you tell us what happened? The captain told us to stay put, but we'll do whatever we can to help you.

芭卡洛儿：我……
Barcarola: I ... We ...

芭卡洛儿：我们的“自由海风号”……再也不会回家了……
Barcarola: The "Free Breeze" will never go home again.

舵手乔瓦尼：什……么？
Helmsman Giovanni: Uh, what?

芭卡洛儿：格蕾丝船长说，这个时代即将毁灭……只有戴上面具的人才能够通过筛选，跟随她踏上新时代的土地。
Barcarola: Captain Grace said this era is coming to an end, and only those who put on a Manus Vindictae mask and pass its trial can reach the new era with her.

舵手老查理：你把老查理越说越糊涂啦！……咱们的终点站难道不是热那亚吗？
Helmsman Charlie: Sorry, what? You just turned your old friend Charlie's brain into a knot. Where are we going then?

芭卡洛儿：不，不是的。我们会去到一个谁也不知道的地方，也许是十年前，或者是一百年前……
Barcarola: There's no telling where or even when we'll end up. Could be someplace ten years ago, or even a hundred years.

舵手伊萨姆：就像时空穿梭？
Helmsman Esam: You mean we're traveling through time?

芭卡洛儿：……我、我不知道。
Barcarola: I-I don't know.

舵手乔瓦尼：芭卡洛儿小姐，您说的这些实在是太离奇了，我乔瓦尼跑过那么多地方，也从没听说过这样的事。
Helmsman Giovanni: I've got to admit, Miss. This all sounds a bit too wild to be believed.

舵手乔瓦尼：可你是从不会欺骗我们的——
Helmsman Giovanni: But as sure as a compass points north—

粗糙的手掌轻轻拍了拍少女仍在发颤的肩头。
He gently pats her on the shoulder with a large, rough hand.

舵手乔瓦尼：我愿意相信你说的这一切。
Helmsman Giovanni: I will trust you mean every word you say.

芭卡洛儿：……谢谢你，乔瓦尼先生。
Barcarola: Thank you, Giovanni.

舵手伊萨姆：按照你的意思，咱们再也没法回去了？鹿特丹、哥本哈根、比雷埃夫斯……哪儿都不行？
Helmsman Esam: So, you're saying if we don't do something, then none of us will ever see home again?

沉默昭示了答案。
Her silence is answer enough.

水手们互相望了望，甚至不需要言语，他们迅速做出了唯一的决定。
The sailors exchange a glance, needing no words to make their decision.

舵手Ⅳ：芭卡洛儿小姐，我们站在你这一头！
Helmsman IV: It's decided then. We'll fight by your side, Ms. Barcarola!

舵手Ⅳ：毕竟咱们这儿的伙计，可没谁乐意去一个谁也没听过的鬼地方！
Helmsman IV: Because none of us wants to find ourselves in a random land back when the dinosaurs roamed!

舵手老查理：没错，我还打算干完这一趟就安安稳稳地退休呢～
Helmsman Charlie: You've got that right! I won't let them ruin my retirement!

舵手乔瓦尼：在海上漂泊再久的水手，也总得有回家的一天——
Helmsman Giovanni: We'll sail ourselves home if we've got to!

舵手乔瓦尼：我可不打算在外头待一辈子。
Helmsman Giovanni: One thing's for certain: I don't want to be stuck here for the rest of my life!

舵手伊萨姆：别说这些客气话了，芭卡洛儿小姐。我们能帮上什么忙吗？
Helmsman Esam: Alright, gentlemen, enough with the words. It's time to take action. Ms. Barcarola, is there anything we can do?

芭卡洛儿：当然！
Barcarola: Yes, of course!

LEE-17 不和谐音 / Dissonance

星锑：天呐，外面什么人都没有了，那些努库泰澳的小子们该不会把我们彻底忘了吧？！
Regulus: Hey, the Nukutai nutjobs outside are gone! Don't tell me they've abandoned ship and left us here to starve!

星锑：快开门，我要求更换行刑方式！我拒绝海葬，我要与你们对抗到底——
Regulus: Come back here, you yellow-bellied cowards! This pirate is not going to Davy Jones's locker without a fight!

愤怒的海盗朝着舷窗外大声疾呼。
Having satisfied her anger by yelling through the porthole, she turns to the others.

星锑：十四行诗，我们的毛毛虫溶剂渗透到哪一步了？
Regulus: Sonetto, are those solvents working at all? Tell me they are!

十四行诗：我确认过了……目前它们已经将舱门的外表皮都腐蚀完毕了。
Sonetto: It appears the outer layer of the door has already dissolved substantially.

乌尔里希：很好，纸莎草毛虫溶剂的效果比我想象中的更加高效。
Ulrich: Excellent. The Papyrpillar Solvents are more effective than I anticipated.

乌尔里希：按照目前的腐蚀程度估算，距离溶解整面舱门大概只需13个自然时！
Ulrich: At this rate, the door should be fully dissolved in approximately 13 hours!

星锑：……真是个了不起的好消息。
Regulus: Oh wow, that fast! Really, Fish Tank? I'll be waiting with bated breath!

焦躁的星锑恼怒地摇晃一旁的玻璃缸。
She furiously shakes his glass tank.

星锑：乌尔里希组长，你为什么不在科算中心普及你的玻璃缸脑袋——！
Regulus: Hey, why don't you just whip us up a few helmets like yours?

星锑：这样我们就能用上你那“轰——”的一下就能搞定一切的爆炸反应堆了！
Regulus: That way, you can just blast the door open with the TNT, and we'll be sound as a pound. Well, our heads at least.

乌尔里希：你误会了，星锑研究员。它的材质只是最普通的二氧化硅，以及7.092%碳酸钙镁与3.27%的氧化铝……并不具备任何防爆破与减震效果。
Ulrich: My helmet is made of regular silica, 7.092% calcium magnesium carbonate, and 3.27% aluminum oxide. I'm afraid it's no more explosion-proof than your regular old skull.

星锑：……
Regulus: ...

海盗颓然靠在舱门上，失去了最后一点儿抗争的力气。
Regulus slumps against the door as the last vestiges of resistance leave her body.

恍惚间，某种似有若无的嘈杂呼喊声传入了监牢。
A faint shout comes from the other side of the door.

维尔汀：星锑，我建议你离那扇舱门远一点儿。
Vertin: Regulus, I'd stay away from the door if I were you.

星锑：哈？
Regulus: Huh?!

芭卡洛儿：……她们在这儿！
Barcarola: They're here!

舵手伊萨姆：抱紧备用锚，伙计们！
Helmsman Esam: Hold onto this anchor like your life depends on it!

舵手老查理：数三、二、一，咱们一起撞开它——！
Helmsman Charlie: We ram the door open on the count of three!

门外的声音有如天籁。
The helmsmen's voices are like music to their ears.

舵手众：三——
Helmsmen: Three!

相似的倒计时。
A countdown begins.

舵手众：二——
Helmsmen: Two!

几乎震撼灵魂的撞击声。
A nearly soul-stirring impact.

舵手众：一！
Helmsmen: One!

牢不可破的舱门在一声声热切的呼喊中轰然倒塌。
With their final count, the supposedly unbreakable door collapses.

熟悉的脸庞又一次出现在眼前。
The cheering of familiar faces echoes through the room.

星锑发誓，这是她有生以来听过的最美妙的一段噪音。
Regulus swears it's the most beautiful noise she's ever heard.

星锑：芭卡洛儿，我就知道你一定会来拯救我的，你一定不希望见到一颗冉冉升起的电台新星在此刻坠落！
Regulus: Right on! I knew you'd come through for us, Barcarola! A rising star through hell or high water!

维尔汀：谢谢你，芭卡洛儿小姐。
Vertin: You have our thanks, Ms. Barcarola.

芭卡洛儿：我……我只是想拯救更多的人。
Barcarola: I just want to save as many people as possible, for the pride of the "Free Breeze"!

身为“自由海风号”的一员，我决不能让她蒙羞！

维尔汀：我们也一样。
Vertin: We aim to do the same thing.

沉默许久的组长也站起身来。
After a pause, Ulrich steps forward.

乌尔里希：司辰，我申请去寻找这艘船的广播室。
Ulrich: Timekeeper, I need to get to the radio room.

乌尔里希：那儿很可能是唯一一处能够收发无线电信号的地方。
Ulrich: It's likely to be the only place on the ship that we'll be able to get through their jamming.

维尔汀与磁流体郑重地对视。
She turns to Ulrich with a solemn look on her face.

乌尔里希：我会带回好消息的，我向你承诺。
Ulrich: I'll bring good news. I promise.

维尔汀：……
Vertin: ...

维尔汀：我明白了，我会派遣星锑协助你的行动。
Vertin: I see. Regulus, you should go with him.

乌尔里希：不不不，找广播室完全用不上这么多人——
Ulrich: No, no, no, I don't need additional manpower for such an easy—

维尔汀：我们不能牺牲任何人，乌尔里希组长。
Vertin: I insist. We can't afford to lose anyone, Mr. Ulrich.

一台小巧的仪器被放在了黑色皮质手套上。
She places a compact device in his leather-gloved hand.

乌尔里希：这是……
Ulrich: This is ...

维尔汀：“前行者”Ⅰ号卫星定位系统，来自你们科算中心的最新技术。
Vertin: The Pioneers Mk I positioning system, the latest in technology from Laplace.

乌尔里希：可我记得它还没有进入量产阶段，仅有几台原型机可用。
Ulrich: But if I recall correctly, it's never been mass-produced. Only a few prototypes were made available.

维尔汀：如果不慎落入海中，或是陷入某种不可控的危险，至少有人能够通过它来确认你的坐标。
Vertin: And this is one of them. If anything happens, someone can use it to track you down if you're in serious trouble, like if you've fallen into the sea.

乌尔里希：……
Ulrich: ...

乌尔里希：这是份宝贵的援助，司辰。
Ulrich: This will surely come in handy. Thanks, Timekeeper.

维尔汀：祝你成功，乌尔里希组长。
Vertin: Good luck, Mr. Ulrich.

星锑：放心吧，没人比老道的前APPLe号船长更了解广播室的布局了！
Regulus: Ha, he won't need it, because no one knows radio systems better than this captain!

维尔汀点了点头，目送拉普拉斯的二人没入黑暗中。
She nods before the two vanish around the corner.

维尔汀：其余人和我一起返回大厅，我们需要率先控制住那些被面具侵蚀的平民。
Vertin: The rest of us need to return to the lobby and get the masked guests under control.

维尔汀：十四行诗，我们还有多少昏睡幻剂？
Vertin: Sonetto, do we have sufficient sedatogens left?

十四行诗：请放心，司辰，我们还有充足的储备！
Sonetto: Yes, Timekeeper. We still have plenty!

维尔汀走上前来，面对着热心肠的水手们。
She turns to the helmsmen.

维尔汀：各位，我还需要你们的协助。
Vertin: Gentlemen, I'll need your assistance, too.

舵手伊萨姆：当然，女士。芭卡洛儿小姐把一切事儿都告诉咱们了，这不仅是为了帮你，也是为了帮助咱们自己！
Helmsman Esam: Of course, ma'am. Ms. Barcarola already told us everything. Sounds like helping you means we're helping ourselves!

芭卡洛儿：伊萨姆先生，您知道客舱的备用钥匙在哪儿吗？
Barcarola: Esam, do you know where we can find the spare keys to the passenger cabins?

芭卡洛儿：还有另一位朋友需要我们帮忙。
Barcarola: We have another friend to free.

船体的另一边，两个鬼祟的身影一前一后地在黑暗中摸索着。
Elsewhere on the ship, two stealthy figures navigate through the darkness.

星锑：组长，你确定我们的方向没错吗？
Regulus: Are you sure this is the right way?

乌尔里希：你在怀疑我的专业性吗？
Ulrich: Are you doubting my capabilities?

星锑：可为什么……
Regulus: Not exactly.

广播室内空无一人。
The broadcasting room is empty.

星锑：这儿居然连一个重塑的守卫也没有？
Regulus: It's only that I expected they'd have this place locked down like the crown jewels, but nobody is here.

乌尔里希：那一点儿也不重要。
Ulrich: We'll concern ourselves with that later.

乌尔里希：赶紧工作，星锑！
Ulrich: Let's get to work, Regulus!

罔顾一旁四处转悠的星锑，乌尔里希迅速将自己的“思维电流”导向了广播台。
Ignoring Regulus's wandering about, Ulrich quickly channels his "thought current" into the broadcasting console.

“广播台”：……
"VHF Radio": ...

“广播台”：喂、喂、喂，呼叫海岸基站，呼叫海岸基站——
"VHF Radio": Coastal base station, come in! Coastal base station, come in!

“广播台”：该死的，国际海事组织呢？！
"VHF Radio": Where's the International Maritime Organization when you need them?!

“广播台”：喂！科算中心澳大利亚分部，听到请回答，听到请回答——
"VHF Radio": Laplace Australia branch, please come in! Laplace Australia branch, please come in!

“广播台”：……
"VHF Radio": ...

星锑：呼……我确认过了，除了船舱内广播，所有信号收发器都被物理破坏了……
Regulus: I just checked out the wiring. All the signal transmitters have been sabotaged.

星锑：——难怪重塑对这儿不管不顾！
Regulus: No wonder there's been no sight nor sound of those oily freaks!

乌尔里希似乎对眼前的一切早有预料，它收回了“思维电流”，对眼前的困境置若罔闻。
Ulrich seems unsurprised. Retracting his "thought current," he disregards the apparent predicament.

一件件古怪的材料被摆到了桌上。
He lays one peculiar item after another onto the table.

星锑：组长，你该不会打算在这儿就地进行“人工暴雨”实验吧？！
Regulus: Reel it in, Fish Tank. You're not conducting the "Artificial Storm" experiments right here, are you?!

乌尔里希：当然，“超自然现象发生地”、“充足的水供应”、“足够的非对称核素R”、“录入在发声结构里的声波催化频率”……
Ulrich: Why not? We have a supernatural phenomenon, a vast water supply, sufficient asymmetrical nuclide R, and the required sound wave frequency ready in the transmission system here.

乌尔里希：这难道不是一个完美的“人工暴雨”反应场吗？
Ulrich: If these aren't the perfect testing conditions for the "Artificial Storm," then what is?

星锑：等等、等等——！
Regulus: Wha-wait, wait, wait!

星锑：可你明明向维尔汀承认过，实验对象存在感染多种时代病的风险。
Regulus: Are you forgetting what you just said to Vertin? What about all those side effects? You've got no bleeding idea how severe they'll be, or how long they'll last!

乌尔里希：这正是我需要你的原因，星锑研究员。
Ulrich: Which is why it's lucky you were sent along with me, Regulus. If anything happens to me, you'll have to be the one to report the experiments' results!

实验以外的人员协调工作可都压在你身上了！

它拍了拍对方的肩膀。
He gives her a hearty pat on the shoulder.

乌尔里希：无论“暴雨”是否到来，我们的研究都会向前迈出一大步。
Ulrich: Whether the "Storm" comes or not, we'll have made an undeniable leap of progress.

乌尔里希：就算我不幸患上了某种糟糕的时代病。
Ulrich: More than worth a bit of Storm Syndrome, no matter how nasty.

一柄灰白色的平衡伞被抛到了星锑的手上。
He tosses an Equilibrium Umbrella into Regulus's hands.

乌尔里希：这儿至少能多出一把平衡伞来。
Ulrich: At least now you'll have an extra Equilibrium Umbrella.

雷厉风行的组长没有顾及一动不动的组员。
He pays no mind to his immobile teammate.

它正严谨地为手头上的材料排序。
Instead, he meticulously sorts through the materials he has spread on the table.

星锑：乌尔里希。
Regulus: Ulrich!

星锑：我拒绝你的提议！
Regulus: I refuse to be a part of this!

LEE-18 二十七岁俱乐部 / The 27 Club

拥挤的监控室里，一人一玻璃缸面面相觑。
In the cramped broadcasting room, the little lion and the lightbulb are at a face-off.

乌尔里希：你说什么？
Ulrich: What did you say?

未曾预料过的宣言令玻璃缸里的磁流体也停止了旋转。
Her unexpected declaration has caused the ferrofluid to come to a halt.

星锑：我说，我拒绝承担“人工暴雨”实验的善后工作。
Regulus: You heard me, you daft lightbulb! I will not be your undertaker!

乌尔里希：……
Ulrich: ...

乌尔里希：星锑研究员，你只是还没有意识到这项实验的意义！
Ulrich: Regulus, you still haven't grasped the significance of this project, have you?!

乌尔里希：我们搞清楚了“暴雨”的基础结构，甚至还模拟出“人工暴雨”，尽管还有不少完善空间，但这可是实打实地把理论研究推进到了应用层面！
Ulrich: We've figured out the principles of the "Storm" and even developed the means to create its simulacra! Yes, there's still much room for improvement, but we've already made a huge leap!

乌尔里希：而现在，我们终于能够把它运用在“暴雨”本身的研究上。
Ulrich: And now, we finally have the opportunity to put our theories into application!

乌尔里希：稳定性材料绝不是一场空谈，“星锑”天文望远镜的实证就赤裸裸地摆在每一个人的面前！
Ulrich: Finding an immutable material is essential to our survival! The "Regulus Satellite" proved it to all of us!

乌尔里希：好好想一想，星锑。
Ulrich: Just think about it, Regulus.

乌尔里希：我们已经站在后“暴雨”时代的分界线上了！
Ulrich: We are standing right on the cusp of the post-"Storm" era!

顽固分子低垂着脑袋，似乎对组长的训示置若罔闻。
Regulus hangs her head.

星锑：乌尔里希组长……
Regulus: Fish Tank.

星锑：你从一开始就打算独自实验吗？
Regulus: You planned this all along, didn't you?

乌尔里希：……
Ulrich: ...

乌尔里希：难道你在担心实验经费的事吗？
Ulrich: Don't tell me you're worried about the funds and credit for the experiment?

乌尔里希：别担心，你同样在项目人员名单中，在实验中造成的一切材料或是个人财产的损耗，拉普拉斯都会为你全额报销！
Ulrich: Laplace will cover all your potential losses and expenses incurred should anything go wrong.

乌尔里希：不论成功与否，对“人工暴雨”实验的协助都能够让你得到一个更高的评级，它当然也会让你得到一笔梦寐以求的报酬。
Ulrich: And whether this project succeeds or not, your assistance has been indispensable. Surely enough to earn you a fat bonus and a high rating for your salary review, and I will certainly not be hogging all the credit.

乌尔里希还想再说些什么，却突然对上一副更加认真的脸。
Ulrich stops upon seeing an even more resolute expression come across Regulus's face.

星锑：打住，打住！
Regulus: Whoa, no, keep it in the tank!

星锑：乌尔里希组长，你是不是搞错了什么？
Regulus: You've got me all wrong, Magnet Head.

乌尔里希：啊……？
Ulrich: Huh?

两个茫然的脑袋怔怔对望。
The two exchanged stunned looks.

星锑：我和你一样，同样是科算中心的一员，同样隶属于“暴雨”专项研究小组。
Regulus: I'm a member of Laplace now, same as you. A researcher, not just an observer.

星锑：同样是“暴雨”的亲历者。
Regulus: I, too, witnessed the "Storm."

乌尔里希从未见过如此郑重的星锑。
Ulrich has never seen Regulus so earnest.

星锑：我也应该真正地参与“人工暴雨”的实验，不是为你处理后事——
Regulus: So, ergo, therefore, Q.E.D., I'll participate in your "Artificial Storm" experiment, not as your note taker.

星锑：而是作为一位实验者。
Regulus: But as your fellow experimenter!

乌尔里希：……你总能给我惊喜，星锑研究员。
Ulrich: I never expected this from you, Regulus.

磁流体无奈地拍了拍脑袋。
He knocks on his glass tank, perplexed.

星锑：我的形象有这么糟糕吗？
Regulus: Don't tell me my reports were really that bad.

星锑：既然我提前预支了工资，我就一定会履行研究员的职责！
Regulus: Never mind, really, don't tell me. Fact of the matter is, I got an advance on my wages, so I fully intend to do my duty as a researcher!

星锑：更何况——
Regulus: Besides ...

星锑：热心肠的摇滚海盗绝对不会将任何一个同伴独自扔在危险之中。
Regulus: No rockin' pirate with a spine would ever leave their shipmates stranded in danger.

结实的手按在星锑的肩上。
Ulrich squeezes Regulus's shoulder.

乌尔里希：我敬佩你的勇气。
Ulrich: I admire your courage, truly.

乌尔里希：但在“人工暴雨”的实验上，你应该相信你的组长能搞定这一切！
Ulrich: However, when it comes to these experiments, you must leave it to me!

星锑：……
Regulus: ...

乌尔里希：这是命令，星锑。
Ulrich: That is an order, Regulus.

玻璃缸的意志显然比顽石更加坚决。
His resolve is unyielding.

它推开门，示意星锑离开这间临时实验室。
He opens the door, signaling Regulus to leave his "lab."

乌尔里希：你负责通过舷窗观测我的实验状态，并记录相关实验数据。
Ulrich: I need you to observe my status through the porthole and record our experimental data. You're the only one that can do it.

星锑：好吧。
Regulus: Alright, Magnet Head, have it your way.

临别的目光扫过实验箱里的一份份材料。
Her eyes linger on the experimental materials in the case.

铂金通灵板、幼龙舌管、火蛾脂粉、许多张一模一样的复制唱片……
Platinum Ouija boards, young dragon tongue tubes, fire moth powder, and numerous duplicated records ...

星锑：乌尔里希组长，你听摇滚吗？
Regulus: Say Ulrich, do you like rock?

乌尔里希：你在说什么乱七八糟的？现在可不是分享音乐的时候！
Ulrich: Now is hardly the time to chat about music, don't you think?

乌尔里希：我希望这是你最后一个莫名其妙的问题了——
Ulrich: I hope you won't be pestering me with more of these inane questions.

乌尔里希：比起摇滚乐，棕色噪音更能让我的磁流体得到充分的舒展与锻炼。
Ulrich: And to answer you, I prefer Brown noise. Its frequencies produce a soothing rhythm in my ferrofluid.

星锑：这正是我不能把它交给你的原因。
Regulus: See? That's exactly why I can't leave it to you.

乌尔里希：什……么？
Ulrich: Errr. What?

逻辑跳跃的话语差点儿令组长宕机。
This logical leap nearly causes Ulrich's circuits to crash.

星锑：如果我对眼前的翻印行为置之不理……
Regulus: I turned a blind eye to your blatant acts of piracy ...

星锑：如果我容许了盗版唱片对于音乐的亵渎……
Regulus: And brushed off your blasphemies against rock.

星锑：倘若我放弃了眼下如此具有摇滚精神的冒险……
Regulus: But, if I miss out on an adventure like this,

星锑：——我将永远失去加入27岁俱乐部的机会！
Regulus: I'll forever lose the right to join the 27 Club!

乌尔里希：摇滚……俱乐部……？
Ulrich: The 27 Club?

星锑：最适合摇滚巨星离世的年龄便是27岁，其次就是现在！
Regulus: All the best rock stars die at 27, or in a blaze of glory!

星锑：这是我的唱片，我必须为它负责。
Regulus: This is my record, my responsibility.

星锑：也许我们会倒下。
Regulus: We might fall or even vanish.

星锑：会变成谁也认不出的古怪模样。
Regulus: Maybe we'll get turned into cubes or paint or whatever!

星锑：但……
Regulus: But at the end of the day ...

星锑：摇滚永远不死！
Regulus: Rock never dies!

乌尔里希：……

乌尔里希：…………
Ulrich: ...

乌尔里希：！
Ulrich: !

乌尔里希：这正是人类所独有的辉光。
Ulrich: Whether you're a rock legend or not, you shine with the radiance of humanity.

乌尔里希：向你的实验精神与摇滚精神致敬！
Ulrich: Regulus, I salute both your experimental spirit and your rock 'n' roll spirit!

乌尔里希：我宣布——
Ulrich: There's only one thing left to do.

乌尔里希：实验项目：“人工暴雨”下的稳定性材料试验
Ulrich: Project: Experiments on Material Immutability via "Artificial Storm"

乌尔里希：实验场地：“自由海风号”广播室临时实验室
Ulrich: Locale: Radio Room of the "Free Breeze" Cruise Ship

乌尔里希：实验人员：乌尔里希，星锑
Ulrich: Experimenters: Ulrich and Regulus

乌尔里希：实验开始。
Ulrich: Our experiment will now commence.

LEE-19 我们称作乡愁之物 / The Pain of Missing Home

舵手伊萨姆：嘿，维尔汀小姐，客人们似乎都集中在这儿——！
Helmsman Esam: Ms. Vertin, it seems all the passengers are gathered in the lobby.

越狱后的一行人终于抵达了一片狼藉的游轮大厅。
The group has finally arrived at the cruise ship lobby. The place is a mess.

十四行诗：司辰，越来越多人被重塑的面具影响了……！
Sonetto: We've lost too much time. A lot of people have put on masks while we were locked up.

维尔汀：先将那些尚有意识的客人们保护起来！
Vertin: We'll need to round up the ones that are still conscious!

舵手老查理：没问题！
Helmsman Charlie: Sure!

临时召集的救援队迅速行动起来，他们翻越此起彼伏的谩骂与争吵，努力分开争抢面具的人群。
The hastily assembled rescue team leaps into action, breaking up rising quarrels and separating the crowd members fighting over masks.

客人Ⅰ：**的[那不勒斯脏话]！——又来了几个抢名额的人！！
Guest I: Damn, more contenders! Like we don't have enough people wrestling for a mask!

客人Ⅱ：混账，把你脑袋上的面具给我——！
Guest II: Give me that mask, asshole!

客人Ⅱ：我要加入重塑之手！我要参加试炼！
Guest II: I'm joining Manus Vindictae! I will take the trial!

客人们相互推搡，行船礼仪被远远抛在了脑后。
Clearly, any semblance of onboard etiquette has been long abandoned.

船员Ⅰ：不行，琼斯先生，您的身体缺乏锻炼，别浪费宝贵的试炼机会！
Crew Member I: Sir, I believe you may be too weak to endure the trial! You should leave this valuable opportunity to someone who will be more useful to Captain Grace!

——这个面具应该留给更有可能博得格蕾丝船长信任的人！

十四行诗：请放下面具，它们不能解决任何问题！
Sonetto: Please put the masks down, everyone! This isn't the way to survive!

客人Ⅲ：小姑娘，放开它，那是我的——！
Guest III: Give it to me! That mask belongs to me!

客人Ⅲ：格蕾丝女士曾对我微笑！她一定是希望我与她一起登上救生艇！
Guest III: Ms. Grace smiled at me once! She must like me! She'll want me to join her!

船员Ⅱ：我……我不想被“暴雨”回溯……
Crew Member II: I just don't want to be killed by this "Storm" thing.

船员Ⅱ：呜呜……我也想要活下去……
Crew Member II: *sob* I don't want to die.

舵手们一拥而上，将昏睡幻剂灌入几乎癫狂的乘客口中。
The helmsmen dip and dive through the crowd as they administer sedatogens to the almost delirious passengers.

舵手伊萨姆：伙计们，快醒醒！
Helmsman Esam: Get back to your senses, people!

舵手伊萨姆：我要是你们，早就把这些怪面具扔到海里去了——！
Helmsman Esam: If I were you, I'd have thrown these creepy masks into the sea the moment I saw them!

同样狼狈的努库泰澳余众也发现了不远处的救援行动。
The Nukutai survivors watch the nearby rescue operation from afar.

多亏了格蕾丝的善心，他们的处境似乎远比其他人“光明”得多。
Thanks to Grace's kindness, their situation appears far "brighter" than the other guests.

但并非人人都如此笃信。
But not all of them share their newfound faith.

托阿：求你了……塞洛尼，戴上重塑面具吧……这只是个简单的仪式……
Toa: Selone, you must put on the mask, please. For our people. It's not scary, I promise.

托阿：难道你情愿被那些外族人抓住吗？！
Toa: Would you rather be captured by those outsiders?!

塞洛尼：快离开这儿吧，托阿。
Selone: Go to the captain's room, Toa.

塞洛尼：你通过了重塑的筛选，快到船长室去吧，那儿的努库泰澳朋友更需要你。
Selone: You passed your trial. I'm sure the captain and our people there need you more than I do.

塞洛尼：我必须留在这儿……我得照顾基蒂欧纳、小皮塔，还有那些状态糟糕的朋友们……
Selone: I must stay here to look after Kitiona, little Pita, and our friends who still seem to be lost.

托阿：塞洛尼——你为什么不愿尝试戴上面具呢？！
Toa: What is wrong with you, Selone? All you need to do is put on the mask!

塞洛尼甩开对方的手，几乎跌坐在地。
Selone breaks free of Toa's grip, nearly falling to the floor as she does so.

塞洛尼：抱歉，托阿。我想……图图石子的犹豫是对的。
Selone: I'm sorry, Toa. I think Fatutu was right to have second thoughts.

塞洛尼：有多少人和你一起戴上了面具，可他们又有多少人活了下来呢？
Selone: Look at all the people who have put on the mask. Now, tell me how many of them have survived?

顺着塞洛尼的泪光望去，无数的试炼失败者躺倒在地。
Following Selone's tear-filled gaze, countless failures of the trial lie sprawled on the floor.

努库泰澳人，澳大利亚人，意大利人……
Nukutai, Australians, Italians ...

水手，商人，游客……
Sailors, merchants, tourists ...

托阿：我还是不明白，还有什么事比回到故乡更重要呢——？！
Toa: And what, you're afraid? Is this really more important than bringing our people home?!

窗外的暴雨仍在急迫地拍打舷窗。
The storm outside continues to batter the ship.

大厅内却变得更安静了。
The lobby, however, grows increasingly silent.

塞洛尼：重塑的面具的确令你变愚钝了，托阿。若是以前的你，又怎么会提出这样浅显的疑问呢？
Selone: You have changed. The Toa I knew would never have dared to ask me such a foolish question.

塞洛尼：你听见他们的哀嚎声了么？
Selone: Haven't you heard their cries?

托阿：想想未来，塞洛尼，想想那个美好的世界！我们能拥有一座新的岛，能重新过上安稳的日子，我们能——
Toa: You need to think of the future, Selone, the new, beautiful homeland we're going to recover! We could live peacefully once more. We could—

托阿激动地挥手，晶莹的泪珠与粘稠的黑液一同淌在地上。
His tears mix with the viscous black liquid of the mask as they drip onto the floor.

塞洛尼：对不起，托阿……对不起。
Selone: Please stop, Toa. I'm sorry.

托阿：……
Toa: ...

塞洛尼：我只是不希望自己的“象形贝壳”也变得那样的粗糙，那样的……扭曲与狰狞。
Selone: When I see how tainted and twisted your Spirit Shell has become, I can't. I won't.

塞洛尼终究还是失去了站立的力量，她的声音几乎微弱得听不见了。
Selone crumples to the floor, her voice barely a whisper.

救援队的行动终于推进到了这儿。
Sonetto spots them among the crowd.

十四行诗：……是塞洛尼小姐！
Sonetto: I recognize her. That's Ms. Selone!

十四行诗：司辰，那边也有人需要救援！
Sonetto: Timekeeper, I think they need assistance!

灰白色的身影急匆匆地奔向努库泰澳人的方向。
She rushes toward the Nukutai survivors.

维尔汀：小心，十四行诗！
Vertin: Sonetto, watch out!

努库泰澳信徒Ⅰ：ㄎ——！……ㄒ……世界……！
Nukutai Believer I: *roar* To ... a new world!

堪堪躲开攻击的十四行诗惊讶地抬起头来。
Narrowly dodging the attack, Sonetto looks up in surprise.

努库泰澳信徒Ⅱ：……ㄗ……ㄙ……
Nukutai Believer II: ... *roar* ... *roar*

冰冷的古铜面具下，粘稠的墨色液体从努库泰澳人的瞳孔与口中缓缓淌下。
Beneath their cold bronze masks, viscous black fluid seeps from the Nukutai believers' eyes and mouths.

他们的肢体扭成古怪的姿势，低声喃喃自语，似乎遭受着无尽的痛苦。
Their limbs have twisted into grotesque shapes, and they mutter to themselves, as though tormented by an unending pain.

维尔汀：十四行诗，准备更多的昏睡幻剂。
Vertin: Sonetto, get ready to use those sedatogens.

狂热的潮水消退了些，痛苦的人们终于进入了梦乡。
Their frenzy subsides as the suffering individuals drift into slumber.

迷失的信徒：ㄙ——！！我……
Delirious Believer: *roar* I ...

十四行诗：抱歉，先生们。
Sonetto: Pardon me for this, please.

科算中心的最新喷剂源源不断地洒向周围。
She sprays a dose of sedatogen over them.

迷失的信徒：家……回ㄐ——！！
Delirious Believer: Home ... home ...

十四行诗：——！
Sonetto: ...!

但遗憾的是，昏睡幻剂对那些被面具影响甚深的迷茫信徒显然收效甚微。
Unfortunately, the sedatogen seems to have little effect on those under the control of the masks.

托阿：你在做什么！
Toa: What're you doing to my people?!

托阿：不许伤害我们的同胞！
Toa: I won't let you hurt them!

托阿警惕地看着眼前的灰白色身影，将那些无意识向前抓挠的重塑信众护在身后。
Toa stands vigilantly before Sonetto, shielding the unconscious Manus believers.

芭卡洛儿：维尔汀小姐、十四行诗小姐，我们回来了！
Barcarola: Ms. Vertin, Ms. Sonetto, we're back!

托阿：……？
Toa: ...?

一个熟悉的轮廓迅速扑了上来。
Fatutu comes rushing over.

图图石子：塞洛尼……托阿……你们没事吧？
Fatutu: Selone, Toa, are you alright?

托阿：图图石子……
Toa: Tutu?

意料之外的相逢似乎并不令人高兴。
Their encounter brings little joy.

托阿摸了摸脸颊上的面具，不自觉地向后退缩了几步。
Toa, instinctively touching the mask clasped to his face, takes a few steps back.

塞洛尼：真高兴你没什么大碍，图图石子。可我们的朋友们……
Selone: I'm so glad to see you unharmed, Fatutu. But our friends ...

图图石子：我都知道的，塞洛尼。芭卡洛儿小姐救下了我，她把一切都告诉了我。
Fatutu: I know what happened, Selone. Barcarola told me everything when she got me out.

图图石子：我想我明白了……我们不应该戴上重塑的面具，更不应该答应他们的复仇计划……
Fatutu: I've made up my mind now. We can't wear their masks, Selone. We never should have agreed to their so-called revenge plan.

迷茫中的信徒似乎捕捉到了关键的字眼，他们像是又被注射了一剂强心针。
The Manus believers seem to latch onto her words, reacting as though they are a shot of adrenaline.

迷失的信徒：复仇……杀ㄙ ——！！
Delirious Believer: Revenge ...! *roar*

图图石子：——！
Fatutu: ...!

狰狞的爪痕撕裂了另一副更结实的臂膀，儿时的同伴又一次挡在了图图石子的身前。
Toa leaps forward, the ragged claws tearing through his arm as he shields his childhood friend once again.

托阿：……
Toa: ...

塞洛尼：托阿——！
Selone: Toa!

芭卡洛儿：图图石子……大家……
Barcarola: No! No! Why is this happening?

鲜血在眼前溅起，洁白的大厅映出一片鲜红。
Blood splatters before her eyes, painting the lobby wall crimson.

迷失之人的复仇欲望却因此愈发高涨。
The believer's appetite for vengeance has only grown stronger.

迷失的信徒：重塑……ㄙ ！
Delirious Believer: Retribution ...! *roar*

十四行诗：糟糕，他们看上去更加疯狂了。司辰，我申请加大昏睡幻剂的剂量！
Sonetto: They seem to be more frantic than ever before! Timekeeper, I suggest increasing the dosage of sedatogens!

维尔汀：不，重塑面具已经扎根在了大脑的深层，单纯的外部刺激无法唤醒他们的意识。
Vertin: The mask's influence has wormed its way deep into their brains. I'm afraid sedatogens won't be able to awaken their consciousness any longer.

维尔汀：他们需要更直白的呼唤。
Vertin: They need something that reaches into their soul.

重塑信徒们涌上前来，誓要撕碎眼前的一切。
The Manus believers are determined to destroy everything in their path.

芭卡洛儿：……！
Barcarola: ...!

人群被推搡着后退，可怜的乐手同样深陷其中。
As they surge forward, the crowd is pushed back. Barcarola is caught in the center of the chaos.

芭卡洛儿：我……我能做些什么呢？
Barcarola: Isn't there something I can do?

哀嚎声、哭声、窗外的雨声几乎挤破了她的耳膜，连琴弓都跌落在地。
The wails, the cries, and the pounding rain outside nearly overwhelm her. Amidst the chaos, her bow slips out of her hand.

“啪——”
*thwack*

清脆的声响令她有些恍惚。
She jumps at the sound.

？？？：别摆弄你的小匣子了，芭卡洛儿——回到课上来！
???: Stop playing with that atrocious toy of yours and pay attention to the class, Barcarola!

？？？：音乐是无关种族与身份的另一门语言。
???: Music is a language that moves us on to a deeper level than any other, transcending both culture, place, and time.

？？？：它四海皆准，它直抵心灵。
???: Whoever you are, and wherever you go, it will always stir the depths of your soul!

芭卡洛儿：……
Barcarola: ...

无须回想，无须思索。
No need to remember. No need to think.

熟悉而简洁的音色从繁复的匣子里流淌而出。
Familiar, simple tones flow from her Crackling Box.

某种难以言喻的、轻柔的声音拂过了图图石子。
A soft, indescribable melody washes over Fatutu.

耳畔的歌儿如此陌生，如此亲切，它究竟来自哪儿呢？
This song is both strange yet intimate. Where is it from?

是乐手口中的克雷莫纳，无意闯入的舵手合唱团，还是岛上经年累月的篝火大会？
Is it from the Cremona that Barcarola talked about? The helmsmen's spontaneous sing-song? Or from Meli's traditional bonfire festival?

图图石子：它们没有什么不同……对吧？
Fatutu: We're not so different deep down, are we?

惊讶的客人：嗯……？
Surprised Guest: Huh? What's that sound? Violins, piano, cellos, double bass, and flutes!

是小提琴的声音，还有钢琴、低音提琴……长笛？

疑惑的客人：可……她不是一直都说自己不喜欢这些太过寻常的乐器吗？
Confused Guest: But violins? She hates violins!

恍惚的客人：我、我想回家……呜呜……
Dismayed Guest: I-I want to go home! *sob*

迷失的信徒：ㄛ……ㄒ……
Delirious Believer: *roar* ... *roar*

迷失的信徒：ㄥㄡ……努库泰澳……
Delirious Believer: *roar* Nukutaeao ...

曾经的伙伴们高举双手，无助地抓挠着。
Her people raise their hands helplessly, clawing at the air.

泪水淌湿了视野，思绪却越发清晰。
Tears blur her vision, but her thoughts only grow clearer.

不住打颤的手郑重地捧起了那枚口琴。
Though her hands are trembling, she gently lifts the harmonica to her lips.

踩着温和的节拍，微微发颤的唇齿轻轻吹响了口琴。
Her quivering lips blow a gentle rhythm into the harmonica.

新的音色加入其中。
A new melody joins the ensemble.

乐手与来自岛上的女孩对望了一眼，没有指挥棒，也无需语言，音乐朝着古老而欢快的河道奔流。
The islander and the musician exchange a glance, and, with no baton nor words, music flows between them like an ancient, joyful river.

斑驳的粘稠液体近乎凝固，它不再从那些呢喃着的无助面具下涌出。
The black liquid stills, no longer seeping from the masks of the helpless.

不知名的歌谣流淌着，轻柔地合上迷失信徒们的双眼。
The melody echoes through the lobby, gently closing the eyes of the tormented believers.

托阿：……
Toa: ...

那双高高举起的手终于放了下来，像是步入了一个沉沉的梦。
Toa's raised hands finally fall, as though succumbing to a deep sleep.

图图石子：……朋友们，一切都结束了。
Fatutu: It's over now, dear friends.

结束表演的游轮乐手局促地捏紧自己的衣角。
Barcarola nervously wrings her hands.

芭卡洛儿：对不起，我没想到这首歌会让努库泰澳人陷入这样的境地……我只是想……
Barcarola: I'm sorry, Fatutu. I didn't expect my song to put your people in this state. I only wanted to help.

图图石子：谢谢你，芭卡洛儿小姐，你是我见过最伟大的演奏家。
Fatutu: You did. You're the greatest musician I've ever seen.

芭卡洛儿：他们……去世了么？
Barcarola: But, your friends, they've—

图图石子：不，他们只是回家了。
Fatutu: They've gone home.

芭卡洛儿：可……
Barcarola: But ...

眼前轻微发抖的肩膀令芭卡洛儿有些陌生。
The lightly trembling shoulders before her suddenly feel unfamiliar.

像那样柔弱、稚嫩的肩膀，从一开始，就是这般勇敢而坚决吗？
Had those fragile, tender shoulders always been so brave and resolute?

图图石子：你瞧，他们身上的象形贝壳是多么光洁、多么圆润——
Fatutu: Look at the shining, pristine Spirit Shells around their necks. That is a sign. It tells us that their souls are at peace.

这是一种美好的象征，芭卡洛儿小姐。它自豪地向我们宣告……

图图石子：我们的朋友已经度过了充实而坦然的，圆满的一生。
Fatutu: That our friends lived a full and honest life.

擦干眼泪，图图石子轻轻拾起那些漂亮的“象形贝壳”。贝壳上仍保留着温润的触感，在她的手中微微发烫。
Wiping her tears, Fatutu gets to her feet and starts to gently collect her lost people's Spirit Shells. She can still feel their warmth in her palm.

卡穆塔：图图石子——！
Kamuta: Fatutu!

贝壳的余温尚未消退，一个冷酷的身影大踏步奔进了这里。
Before the warmth of the Spirit Shells can fade, Kamuta strides into the lobby, his demeanor cold.

LEE-20 向别处 / To Elsewhere, To Home

卡穆塔：……你知道自己在做些什么吗？
Kamuta: What are you doing?!

卡穆塔：你竟然投靠了我们的仇人，你还记得自己重建家园的使命吗？！
Kamuta: How could you side with our enemies? Against your own people, against the ones who would rebuild our home?!

不可置信的严厉语气在她的耳畔炸响。
Incredulous severity colors his tone.

卡穆塔：我对你很失望，图图石子。
Kamuta: You've brought shame on our people. You've disappointed me.

卡穆塔：跟我走，我们现在就去请求格蕾丝女士为你洗礼——你不能再胡闹了！
Kamuta: Stop all this now, and come with me. We will beg Ms. Grace to cleanse your soul!

如往常无数次伸出的手一般，他等待着一次熟悉的回握。
Like the countless times before, he waits for her to grasp his outstretched hand.

“啪——”
*thwack*

卡穆塔：……？！
Kamuta: ?!

一次出乎意料的反叛。
An unexpected act of defiance.

图图石子：加入重塑之手是一个完全错误的决定，卡穆塔。
Fatutu: Joining Manus Vindictae was a mistake, Kamuta.

图图石子：重塑的面具已经把我们害得够惨了，无数的努库泰澳同胞们因此被仇恨蒙蔽，因此牺牲，因此永远地离开了我们……
Fatutu: Their masks blinded our people, they tricked us with their lies and empty promises, but look! So many precious lives lost for nothing.

卡穆塔：这是为了重建努库泰澳，图图石子！
Kamuta: It wasn't for nothing. They died for the resurrection of Nukutaeao!

卡穆塔：难道你不希望在一片没有人类、没有纷争与污染的土壤上，重新建起我们的新家园吗？
Kamuta: Isn't it your dream, too? To rebuild our home in a land free of humans and their wickedness?!

图图石子轻轻地摇了摇头。
Fatutu shakes her head.

图图石子：不，不是这样的，卡穆塔。
Fatutu: No. Not anymore, Kamuta.

她环顾周围的努库泰澳人，迷茫与痛苦写满了每一张脸。
She looks around at her people, their faces marked with pain and confusion.

图图石子：为了抵达那样美好的新世界，我们已经失去了太多宝贵的东西。
Fatutu: We may have lost our islands, but what we've done here lost us something far more precious.

卡穆塔：……
Kamuta: ...

图图石子：让我们为之骄傲的，从来都不是那些外人羡慕的新奇珍宝，也不是格蕾丝女士口中美好的新时代……
Fatutu: There's nothing in this so-called "new era" that Ms. Grace promised us that is worth becoming monsters and corrupting our Spirit Shells.

图图石子：是来自努库泰澳的每一个人！
Fatutu: Our pride must be in ourselves and who we are.

图图石子：所有的人都能通过我们的贝壳、我们的口音、我们说的每一句话、做的每一件事认出我们……
Fatutu: The shells around our necks, the words we speak to one another, the way we treat others with kindness, not hatred. That is what defines us.

图图石子：他们会说，我见过努库泰澳人，是的，他们胸口的贝壳整齐又漂亮，他们擅长给每一位客人的脑袋编上花环。他们热情，善良，脸上永远都挂着笑容……
Fatutu: We are more than just how the outsiders can use us, more than our Sea Mother's Eye. We are the wisdom of our elders, and the traditions we keep sacred.

图图石子：他们会想起大家编织的“罗盘灼灼”，会记得一位小客人曾在船舱里和他们一起驱赶巨齿飞鳐，会想起来自努库泰澳的歌声……
Fatutu: And if our islands all sink beneath the waves, we will remember them in our craft and in our stories, we will remember the story of the brave Nukutai girl fighting off the Serres, we will remember them in the songs of Nukutaeao!

图图石子：无论我们去到哪儿，在哪个岛上漂流……努库泰澳都在我们脚下。
Fatutu: No matter whether it's an island or a ship we stand on, as long as we're together, Nukutaeao—our home—lies beneath our feet!

卡穆塔：…………
Kamuta: ...

图图石子：你早就说过的，卡穆塔——
Fatutu: Didn't you say you would always have faith in me, Kamuta?

图图石子：你认为我能够肩负起带领族人的使命……你相信我……
Fatutu: You believed I could lead our people to a better future.

图图石子：现在，我也相信我自己。
Fatutu: Now, I believe in myself, too.

她抬起头来，胸前的贝壳随着剧烈的呼吸起伏着。
She raises her head, the shells on her chest heaving with every breath.

它们一同震颤着，像是无数努库泰澳人发自灵魂的共鸣。
They tremble in unison, resonating with the collective energy of the Nukutai.

卡穆塔：呵呵……
Kamuta: Heh heh.

卡穆塔：你做的很好，图图石子。
Kamuta: You'll be a better leader than I ever was, Fatutu.

预想中的责备并未到来，错愕的目光紧紧盯住了自己的哥哥。
The expected reprimand never comes. She stares in shock at her brother,

嘴角仍未消退的欣慰笑容，颤抖着伸出、试图抚摸对方额头的手，以及……
at his lips curled into a faint smile, at his trembling hand still extended out to her, and ...

从眼眶与耳廓中，不断渗出的黑色血迹。
at the black blood seeping from his eyes and ears.

图图石子：卡穆塔，你怎么了……？
Fatutu: What's happening to you?!

“哐——”
*crash*

眼前的高大身影直直地倒了下去。
The towering figure before her falls to the ground.

卡穆塔：我很好……图图石子……
Kamuta: I'm fine, Tutu. I'll be alright.

卡穆塔：我很高兴你能说出那样的话……你是对的……妹妹……
Kamuta: You're right, dear sister. The words you spoke have opened my eyes.

断断续续的话语从发黑的嘴唇中艰难地挤出来。
Pained words are forced through his blackened lips.

图图石子：哥哥——？！
Fatutu: Brother!

少女的惊呼声将人群都吸引了过来。
As she cries out, heads turn toward her.

那副扎眼的面具仍然紧紧攀附在他的脸上，漆黑的液体几乎覆盖了整副面庞。
The mask remains tightly affixed to Kamuta's face, its black liquid nearly covering it entirely.

维尔汀：糟了，是重塑面具的反噬！
Vertin: It's the mask's punishment!

图图石子：我……我不明白……
Fatutu: I-I don't understand!

维尔汀：重塑之手通过面具筛选出忠诚的门徒，通过考验者能够不受神智束缚，保留自我意识与部分记忆。
Vertin: Manus Vindictae use their masks to sift out their most loyal followers. Those who pass the trial can retain their personality and memories.

维尔汀：但……
Vertin: However ...

维尔汀：意志动摇的背叛者将遭到重塑面具的反噬，被无边无际的神秘学汪洋所捕获……
Vertin: If they should show any signs of faltering in their faith, the mask will punish them. Their consciousness will be devoured by the fathomless depths of arcanum.

维尔汀：永远地沦为一具在痛苦中沉沦的……行尸走肉。
Vertin: Until they become nothing but a walking corpse, caught in eternal agony.

刺耳的掌声突兀响起。
A slow clap breaks the silence.

淑女格蕾丝：呵呵，维尔汀小姐对我们的了解实在令人讶异。
Ms. Grace: Well, well, I am stunned by the breadth of your knowledge of our operations, Ms. Vertin.

淑女格蕾丝：但我必须提醒您，随意暴露他人的秘密可算不上什么淑女的品格，维尔汀小姐。
Ms. Grace: But I must remind you: gossip like that is terribly bad manners.

淑女格蕾丝：托您的福，女士……那些可怜的客人们牙关都开始打颤了。
Ms. Grace: Is it any wonder why our guests look so terrified?

淑女格蕾丝：难道他们比起死亡，更害怕我们吗？
Ms. Grace: Though it does pique my curiosity. I wonder, even with all you said, do they fear us more than they fear death?

居高临下的目光在船舱的客人们之间好奇地打着转，最后落在了曾经的同僚身上。
Her commanding gaze hovers over the ship's passengers before finally landing on her former follower.

淑女格蕾丝：真遗憾，卡穆塔先生……
Ms. Grace: What a pity, Mr. Kamuta.

淑女格蕾丝：我本来以为我们能成为更长久的朋友呢～
Ms. Grace: I had high hopes for you. It seems our friendship has come to an untimely end.

毫无波澜的话语轻飘飘地落在每一个人的耳中，人群在惶恐中缓缓向后退去。
Her words are cold and emotionless, instilling a new fear in the crowd.

维尔汀：现在所有人都知道了面具的真相，你们再也无法欺骗任何人了。
Vertin: The people here know the truth about your masks. There's no sense trying to deceive them any longer!

淑女格蕾丝：……是吗？
Ms. Grace: Oh, is that so?

优雅的步伐缓缓逼近。
Grace slowly advances, her steps poised.

十四行诗：司辰，请站在我身后！
Sonetto: Timekeeper, stay behind me!

一抹扎眼的灰白色挡在了格蕾丝的视线前。
Sonetto imposes herself between the two, poised to fight.

淑女格蕾丝：噢，我瞧见了什么——！
Ms. Grace: Oh, what do we have here?

淑女格蕾丝：这儿有一只多么可爱、多么天真的忠诚小狗儿啊～
Ms. Grace: How adorable, the ever-loyal deputy leaps into action! *chuckle*

淑女格蕾丝：好狗狗，我保证，要不是时间紧迫，我肯定愿意多陪你玩一会儿扔项圈小游戏……
Ms. Grace: But we're on a tight schedule, and I don't have time to play games.

淑女格蕾丝：嗯，没错……就是你胸口那枚～
Ms. Grace: There's no power in your shiny little badge here.

她的目光掠过那枚明亮而刺眼的勋章。
She glances at the Foundation emblem on her chest.

淑女格蕾丝：重塑之手将永远铭记你的贡献，卡穆塔先生。
Ms. Grace: Mr. Kamuta, Manus Vindictae will forever remember your contribution.

淑女格蕾丝：……永别了。
Ms. Grace: Farewell.

维尔汀：图图石子——小心！
Vertin: Fatutu, watch out!

淑女格蕾丝：*Slæstu í djúpan dvala.
Ms. Grace: *Slæstu í djúpan dvala.

图图石子：不！——哥哥！
Fatutu: Brother! No!

四周传来的术法波动轻飘飘地溶解在无名者的周围。
The arcane fluctuations gently dissipate around Grace.

芭卡洛儿：格蕾丝船长……
Barcarola: Captain Grace!

淑女格蕾丝：你在难过么？芭卡洛儿小姐。
Ms. Grace: What is it now, Ms. Barcarola?

淑女格蕾丝：但我必须遗憾地通知你，你被解雇了。
Ms. Grace: I'm sure you've already guessed this, but you've been relieved of your duties here.

维尔汀：格蕾丝，重塑的目的，从来都不是拉拢努库泰澳人，对么？！
Vertin: Gaining the support of the Nukutai was never your purpose, am I right?

图图石子：格蕾丝女士，把我的朋友们还给我！
Fatutu: Ms. Grace, give me back my friends!

对女孩的呐喊声置若罔闻，格蕾丝的眉头轻轻皱起。
Grace ignores Fatutu's shouts and slightly furrows her brow.

淑女格蕾丝：……
Ms. Grace: ...

淑女格蕾丝：维尔汀，你聪明得令人生厌。
Ms. Grace: Oh, Vertin. I could almost delight in your cleverness, if it wasn't so damnably frustrating.

她打了个响指。
She snaps her fingers.

“哐——”
*clink*

一枚磨损的、造型极不规整的象形贝壳滚落到她的脚边。格蕾丝捧起它来，像是迎着一位终于相逢的好友。
A worn, oddly shaped Spirit Shell rolls to Grace's feet. She picks it up, as if greeting a long-lost friend.

淑女格蕾丝：多遗憾呀，可怜的朋友……
Ms. Grace: A pity.

淑女格蕾丝：你再也回不去了。
Ms. Grace: But there's no turning back now.

四周终于安静了下来，连窗外的风声都清晰可闻。
The room falls silent once more. There is no sound but the howling of the wind outside.

一股嘈杂的电流声突兀地在大厅的广播中响起。
A burst of static echoes from the lobby's speakers.

乌尔里希：喂、喂——！
Ulrich: Hello! Hello?!

乌尔里希：有人能听见吗？
Ulrich: Can't anyone hear me?

乌尔里希：这里是科算中心“暴雨”专项研究小组，我是乌尔里希。
Ulrich: This is Ulrich from Laplace's "Storm" Research Group.

受惊的游客：——！
Startled Guest: Oh, dear!

嘈杂的无线电广播令神经衰弱的客人为之一震。
The radio broadcast jolts the already frazzled guests.

耳鸣的游客：喂——！
Tinnitus-Stricken Guest: Whoa!

耳鸣的客人抬起头来，广播仍在滋滋地播放着什么。
The tinnitus-stricken guest looks up, the broadcast still hissing incomprehensibly.

乌尔里希：……各位……
Ulrich: Everyone!

乌尔里希：我们确认了……材料……
Ulrich: We've found a material that ...

乌尔里希：……问题……
Ulrich: Our "Storm" problem is ...

四周短暂地安静了一瞬。
The room falls briefly silent.

随后，雷鸣般的、绵延不绝的欢呼与掌声覆满了他的耳膜。
Then, it breaks into thunderous cheers and applause.

耳鸣的游客：……什么？
Tinnitus-Stricken Guest: What?

LEE-21 最后一次告别 / Final Farewell

突如其来的惊喜宣言向四周迅速扩散。
The joy of this declaration has reached the hearts of the crowd.

有人将信将疑，有人欢呼。但无一例外的，更多的面具被抛到了一边。
Amid the cheers, more and more masks are cast aside.

淑女格蕾丝：真令人意外，你们总能给我源源不断的惊喜。
Ms. Grace: You never cease to amaze me, do you?

维尔汀：重塑之手，你们的阴谋已经失败了。
Vertin: Manus Vindictae have failed.

淑女格蕾丝：当然，维尔汀小姐。
Ms. Grace: It would appear that way to you, wouldn't it, Ms. Vertin?

淑女格蕾丝：……我该怎么恭喜你呢？
Ms. Grace: How shall I congratulate you?

在似有若无的感慨声中，一位传讯门徒从格蕾丝的身后显现了出来。
A Manus messenger emerges behind Grace.

传讯门徒：ㄍㄟㄙㄉㄣㄖˊㄡㄣㄠㄚㄜㄉㄗㄅˋ
Manus Messenger: Ma'am, we've arrived at the target location.

<格蕾丝大人，我们抵达了对应的坐标。>

传讯门徒：一 ㄩㄞㄠㄗㄌㄢ一ˊㄎㄚㄨㄥㄨㄓˋ
Manus Messenger: We've gathered all the remaining shells and are ready to activate the teleportation ritual at any time.

<其余的材料也已经整理完毕，随时可以发动传送术阵。>

淑女格蕾丝：……相逢的时刻总是如此短暂。
Ms. Grace: Well, well. Time does fly, as they say. Be seeing you and sooner than you think!

格蕾丝最后一次打开了怀表，而后随手将它掷到地上。
Grace opens her pocket watch one last time before casually tossing it aside.

淑女格蕾丝：当然，我还为你们准备了最后一份临别的礼物。
Ms. Grace: But before I go, consider this a parting gift from your captain, for old time's sake.

“轰——”
*boom*

一阵巨响从船舱的底部传来。
An explosion booms from the ship's depths.

她转过身来，朝着倾倒的众人款款鞠躬。
Grace gives an elegant bow.

淑女格蕾丝：再见了，朋友们，我由衷地感激你们——
Ms. Grace: Goodbye, my dear guests. From the bottom of my heart—

淑女格蕾丝：为这一段难忘的美好旅程。
Ms. Grace: Thank you all for this unforgettable journey.

舵手伊萨姆：——！
Helmsman Esam: ...!

“轰隆——”
*rumble*

舵手老查理：是动力室的方位！
Helmsman Charlie: That came from the engine room!

舵手老查理：那儿是……那些怪模怪样的铁皮水手负责管理的地方！
Helmsman Charlie: Those tin-headed bastards, they must have done something to it.

舵手伊萨姆：去甲板上看看，老查理！
Helmsman Esam: Go see what you can from the deck, Charlie!

老练的舵手们匆匆登上了甲板。
The seasoned helmsmen hurriedly make their way to the deck.

舵手老查理：糟了——！
Helmsman Charlie: Damn it all! They've blown a hole straight through the starboard hull!

“自由海风号”的右侧被炸了个大洞！

舵手们焦急地来回踱步，游轮乐手终于意识到了一个更严峻的问题。
While the helmsmen pace anxiously, Barcarola suddenly realizes the gravity of the situation.

芭卡洛儿：伊萨姆先生……您的意思是“自由海风号”就要沉没了吗？！
Barcarola: Gentlemen, you can't possibly be saying that the "Free Breeze" is going to sink?!

船舱的震动并未停下，反而愈发剧烈，像是战场中接连不断的火药爆炸与爆破声，又像是海神波塞冬排山倒海般的怒吼。
The ship's tremors again. It's as if they're on a battlefield.

舵手伊萨姆：该死的，咱们的救生艇也放在那附近！
Helmsman Esam: What's worse, that explosion came from over by the lifeboats!

舵手伊萨姆：重塑之手铁了心要干掉我们所有人！
Helmsman Esam: These bastards are hellbent on making sure we all end up at the bottom of the sea!

撕裂的海浪、金属钢板的嗡鸣与周遭人们的哭泣声一同从支离破碎的舷窗碎片间灌进了船舱。
The sound of tearing waves, humming steel plates, and crying guests pours into the cabin through shattered portholes.

漆黑一片的海洋中，目力所及之处，只有一片狂舞的墨色。
The pitch-black sea stretches as far as the eye can see, its surface alive with turbulent, inky swirls.

人们的心又一次随着船舱的倾角晃荡了起来。
There is another wave of panic as the ship tilts once again.

客人Ⅰ：救救我们，你们是“自由海风号”的负责人，你们承诺过的！
Guest I: Help us, Ms. Barcarola! You promised to keep us safe!

客人Ⅱ：还有你，女士！
Guest II: And you, Miss!

客人Ⅱ：你说过你们来自什么基金会，你们会保护好所有人的！
Guest II: Aren't you from the Foundation or whatever?! You said you'd protect us!

恐慌的客人们试图抓住每一根救命稻草。
The guests are desperately clinging to any chance of salvation.

维尔汀：请各位排好队，我的箱子能够暂时容纳一部分人员。
Vertin: Please line up, everyone. My suitcase should be able to temporarily shelter some passengers.

维尔汀：芭卡洛儿小姐，你知道船上的客人数目吗？
Vertin: Ms. Barcarola, do you know how many passengers are aboard?

经验丰富的乐手显然对“自由海风号”的数据了如指掌。
The musician clearly knows every detail about the "Free Breeze."

芭卡洛儿：1600余人，但现在可能有一半人都受伤了，他们没法迅速行动……
Barcarola: About 1600 in total. But I think many of them will be injured. I don't know how well they can move.

维尔汀：仅仅依靠我的箱子，来不及转移这么多人员……
Vertin: My suitcase alone won't be able to transfer that many people in time.

一旁握着通讯器的第一助手突然惊呼起来。
Suddenly, the communicator clutched in Sonetto's hand makes a sharp sound.

通讯器：“滴滴——滴滴——”
Communicator: Beep beep! Beep beep!

十四行诗：信号恢复了，司辰！
Sonetto: The signal's back, Timekeeper!

维尔汀：看来之前果然是重塑在捣乱……
Vertin: Just as we suspected, they were jamming our signal.

维尔汀：可是，他们是怎么知道我们的信号频段的呢？
Vertin: But how did they know our internal frequency?

冗杂的信息被甩出大脑，眼下有更紧要的事需要解决。
She quickly brushes this question aside. There are more urgent matters to attend to.

维尔汀：圣洛夫基金会，这里是维尔汀，收到请回答。
Vertin: This is Vertin. Please come in.

维尔汀：我们正位于“自由海风号”，坐标南纬55°35′，西经65°01′。
Vertin: We're currently aboard the cruise ship "Free Breeze," at coordinates 55.35°S, 65.01°W.

维尔汀：重塑之手炸毁了“自由海风号”的动力室，目前“自由海风号”正在下沉。
Vertin: The engine has been destroyed by Manus Vindictae, and the ship is taking on water fast.

维尔汀：船上乘客约有千余人。
Vertin: There are more than 1600 passengers aboard. But we won't be able to evacuate every passenger through my suitcase alone before the ship goes under.

仅仅依靠手提箱，我们无法在船只沉没之前疏散所有乘客……

维尔汀：重复，我们需要足够数量的救生艇援助。
Vertin: We're in need of immediate rescue.

通讯器：收到，我们将就近调遣相关救援人员。救援工作需要时间，在此之前，请各位积极自救，尽可能降低人员伤亡。
Communicator: Understood. We will dispatch rescue resources and personnel from the nearest branch as soon as possible. Before their arrival, please do everything possible to minimize casualties.

十四行诗：芭卡洛儿小姐，请告诉我广播室的位置，我还需要去援救另外两名同伴。
Sonetto: Ms. Barcarola, could you point me towards the radio room? I believe our friends may be in need of help.

芭卡洛儿：当然。
Barcarola: Of course.

橘发姑娘小跑着离开了。
Sonetto jogs away in the pointed direction.

船板的吱嘎声愈发剧烈，栏杆和索具在风中摆荡，发出一阵阵痛苦的呻吟。它窜入舷窗与冻得通红的耳中，把所有人的五官拧成可怖的一团。
The creaking of the ship's planks grows louder, and its railings and rigging groan painfully. Their sound carries on the freezing wind, and whips at the ears of the crowd.

冷冽的风令芭卡洛儿打了个激灵，她突然想起了什么。
Shivering from the cold, Barcarola remembers something.

芭卡洛儿：格蕾丝……她接管“自由海风号”的时间并不久，肯定不知道后备救生艇的位置，重塑没法毁掉它们！
Barcarola: Wait. Ms. Grace wasn't the captain for long. It's possible she didn't know about the ship's backup lifeboats. They might still be intact.

舵手伊萨姆：了不起，芭卡洛儿——！
Helmsman Esam: Good thinking, Ms. Barcarola!

舵手老查理：我就知道没人比你更了解这艘船！
Helmsman Charlie: You're a natural-born captain!

芭卡洛儿：——大家跟我来！
Barcarola: Everyone, follow me!

LEE-22 我不曾遗憾 / Without Regret

空旷的房间隐秘而晦暗，好似孕育着某种可怖的魂灵。
The room is cloaked in oppressive shadow, as if harboring a menacing spirit.

绅士靠近了略显狼狈的姑娘。
A gentleman emerges from the darkness.

勿忘我：你很好地完成了任务，使徒小姐。
Forget Me Not: You did well, Apostle.

他打量着形态各异的象形贝壳，努库泰澳人毕生的情感积淀在他的手中轻轻碰撞。
He examines the Spirit Shells, the lifelong emotions of the Nukutai lightly clinking in his hands.

勿忘我：很优异的材料。
Forget Me Not: These are splendid.

勿忘我：仪式倾泻的能量将得到一个最好的去处。
Forget Me Not: They will ensure the overflow of ritual energy will be properly contained.

勿忘我：坦白说，我一直很担心你能否行使自己的使命。
Forget Me Not: To be frank, I had my doubts about your capabilities.

勿忘我：你还太年轻，还没能积攒足够的经验，甚至不曾弄脏过自己的手。
Forget Me Not: You're still wet behind the ears, and you haven't yet gotten enough blood on those hands of yours.

扶着门框的使徒向钢琴前的身影款款鞠躬。
The apostle bows. Her pale hand is clinging to the doorframe.

淑女格蕾丝：为祂的……归来，献出一切。
Ms. Grace: I am willing to do anything for THEIR return.

勿忘我露出一个鼓励的微笑。
Forget Me Not offers her an encouraging smile.

勿忘我：但这一次，你做的很好。
Forget Me Not: Still, you surpassed my expectations.

淑女格蕾丝：……
Ms. Grace: ...

门框支撑着轻微摇晃的手，发出丝丝噪响。
Her hand is trembling.

勿忘我：你看上去很疲惫，小格蕾丝。
Forget Me Not: You look tired.

勿忘我：船上的颠簸日子肯定不太好受……放松些，你已经回家了。
Forget Me Not: Life at sea must have taken its toll on you. Relax now. You're home.

淑女格蕾丝：好的。
Ms. Grace: As you wish.

格蕾丝深吸一口气，将发颤的手指藏在身后。
She takes a deep breath and hides her trembling fingers behind her back.

勿忘我：在未来的计划里，你很重要。
Forget Me Not: You will play an important role in our upcoming plans.

勿忘我：好好休息吧。
Forget Me Not: Rest well, Apostle.

淑女格蕾丝：……是。
Ms. Grace: I will.

对方饶有兴趣地盯着格蕾丝，后者关门的手滞住了。
Grace's hand freezes as she goes to close the door. Her hesitation is evident.

淑女格蕾丝：……
Ms. Grace: ...

淑女格蕾丝：向您致意，勿忘我先生。
Ms. Grace: Thank you, Mr. Forget Me Not.

勿忘我：呵呵。
Forget Me Not: Heh heh.

门缓缓地闭合，勿忘我的轮廓逐渐模糊，他的笑容隐没在阴影里。
As she shuts the door, Forget Me Not's outline blurs, and his smile vanishes into the shadows.

淑女格蕾丝：……
Ms. Grace: ...

努力维持镇定的脚步朝着仅有的一阵微光缓步走去。
Steadying herself, Grace slowly moves toward the faint glimmer of light.

淑女格蕾丝：……
Ms. Grace: ...

风声跌跌撞撞地扑过走廊，令苍白的姑娘打了个寒颤。
The wind whipping through the corridor causes her to shiver.

淑女格蕾丝：——！
Ms. Grace: ...!

格蕾丝将脊背抵住门口，在一阵冰冷的触感中滑落在地。
She presses her back against the door and slides to the ground.

淑女格蕾丝：咳、咳咳……！
Ms. Grace: *cough*

她颤抖着爬进了一个最近的棺椁。
Trembling, she crawls into the nearest coffin.

本该为下一件收藏品准备的展柜。
A display case meant for the next specimen.

淑女格蕾丝：…………
Ms. Grace: ...

淑女格蕾丝：♪……
Ms. Grace: ♪ ...

淑女格蕾丝：♪……♫……
Ms. Grace: ♪ ... ♫ ...

芭卡洛儿：这儿的照明设施并不好，请大家牵紧彼此的手，跟着音乐的方向。
Barcarola: It's hard to see here. Please hold onto each other and follow the sound of my music.

感激的客人：芭卡洛儿小姐，您真了不起……您没有丢下我们，否则我们现在只能在船上等死了……
Grateful Guest: Thank you so much, Ms. Barcarola! If it weren't for you, we never would've survived!

感激的客人：我敬佩您的勇气。
Grateful Guest: You're so courageous!

忐忑的客人：可、那些救生筏的数量真的足够吗？
Antsy Guest: But what if there aren't enough lifeboats for everyone?

忐忑的客人：……如果我们之中一定会有人牺牲呢？
Antsy Guest: Will we have to leave anyone behind?

颤抖的疑问被海风吹散了。
The guest's shivering questions are scattered by the sea breeze.

人们打着冷颤，步履蹒跚地循着音乐缓缓前进。
They shudder and stumble as they follow the music.

四周黯淡无光，翻腾的云不再喧闹，鸥鸟与海浪的声音也隐没在人潮的呜咽里。
The sky is dark, but the churning clouds are no longer noisy. The cries of gulls and the crashing of waves merge with the weeping of the crowd.

脚步声在走廊与楼梯间穿行了许久，人们的表情扑朔迷离。
They make their way through corridors and staircases for what seems like an eternity, their faces steeped in shadow.

忐忑的客人：我不想就这样死去……我还有很多事没有完成……
Antsy Guest: I don't want to die like this. There are still so many things I want to do!

恍惚的客人：呜呜呜……哪怕“暴雨”真的改变了一切，我也希望能回到家乡看看……
Dismayed Guest: *sob* I want to go home. Even if the "Storm" changes everything, I just want to go ...

图图石子：请大家放心，努库泰澳人愿意让出救生艇的名额。
Fatutu: We have talked about it, and the Nukutai are willing to give up their spots if there aren't enough boats for everyone.

图图石子：……“自由海风号”发生的一切，对不起。
Fatutu: We want to make amends for what happened earlier.

芭卡洛儿：不——埃迪特先生，图图石子小姐。
Barcarola: Fatutu, this wasn't your people's fault.

芭卡洛儿：“自由海风号”不会放弃任何一位乘客，我决不会辱没她的名号。
Barcarola: The "Free Breeze" will not abandon any of its passengers.

芭卡洛儿：……
Barcarola: ...

她将背后的啪唧匣子举过了头顶，雪白的面庞涨得通红。
She raises her Crackling Box high, her face flushing red.

芭卡洛儿：这是“自由海风号”游轮乐手的保证。
Barcarola: You have my word as the official musical director, and I suppose, the acting captain.

图图石子：芭卡洛儿小姐，你在做什么——啪唧盒子不是你最引以为傲的……
Fatutu: Barcarola, what have you done to your Crackling Box?

芭卡洛儿：“*分解咔咔咒——！ ”
Barcarola: *Sinfonia gioiosa, dividetevi con grazia!

惊讶的客人：您居然抛下了这柄绞弦琴……芭卡洛儿小姐，我可是记着您当时花了多少工夫才找到它的……
Surprised Guest: Oh, Ms. Barcarola, not your zanfona! I remember you telling us how hard you worked to find it.

怀念的客人：天呐——离开加利西亚以后，我有多久没见着它了……
Reminiscing Guest: I haven't seen one of those since my time in Galicia.

感动的客人：它、它们变成了救生船……芭卡洛儿女士，您是我见过最伟大的游轮乐手……不、最伟大的音乐家！
Emotional Guest: You've turned them into boats! Ms. Barcarola, you're not just a great musician, you're a kind soul, too!

感动的客人：您拯救了更多的人……
Emotional Guest: You saved us!

LEE-23 海中升起的她 / Finding Home on the Waves

海水打湿了发梢，流苏边的花呢裙子在一阵接一阵翻涌的海潮中起伏，像是一片格外斑斓的浪花。
Seawater soaks the tips of her hair, the hem of her tweed skirt ripples among the waves.

这柄曾深藏在啪唧匣子里的小提琴与湿透的姑娘相互依偎，琴颈、琴身、尾杆相互嵌合……来自过去的小舟稳稳地托起了她。
The violin once hidden within the Crackling Box nestles against her, its neck, body, and tailpiece interlocking ... a small boat from the past buoying her steadily.

女孩终于惊觉了一件可怕的、被自己忽略已久的事实。
Barcarola realizes a terrifying truth, one she has long ignored.

芭卡洛儿：他们早就告诉过我的……
Barcarola: It's just like what Papà and Mamma said ...

？？？：“要为淘气的女儿制造一柄最特别的小提琴，
???: "Our cheeky little pumpkin's violin should have a rich and bright tone

它得有丰富深邃的音色，声音不能尖锐，当然也不能空洞或是不平衡。”
—not too sharp or unbalanced—just like her."

？？？：“我们得向比利先生要来云杉或者枫木，
???: "Let's ask Mr. Belli for some top-notch spruce or maple wood

嗯，克雷莫纳人最骄傲的那些好木头，它们的年轮紧密而均匀，让琴声能够更好地传导、共振……”
—the best that Cremona can offer!"

？？？：“琴颈与琴身的连接、漆面的处理……这些都不能落下……”
???: "We'll need some glue for the neck joint and plenty of varnish."

？？？：“这是克雷莫纳的小提琴，是我们的骄傲，到哪儿都能被认出来。”
???: "Of course. This is a Cremona violin we're talking about."

？？？：“最最重要的是，这是给芭卡洛儿的小提琴……”
???: "Most important of all, it will be a violin for our little Barcarola."

那些逐渐失真的模糊话语如在耳边，如在昨日。
The voices sound so close, as if they were spoken just yesterday.

芭卡洛儿：……我从没离开过那儿，是么？
Barcarola: As much as I try to deny it, I suppose my heart is still there with them.

一阵轻柔的风刮过了她，又像是一缕萦绕在心尖儿上的烟。
A gentle breeze blows as she finally recognizes that little wisp of smoke lingering in her heart.

怀中的小提琴被搂得更紧了，甚至在手腕与脚踝上勒出了一道道红印。
She clutches the violin even tighter.

芭卡洛儿：爸爸……妈妈……克雷莫纳……
Barcarola: Papà, Mamma, and Cremona.

一个氤氲着水汽与暖风的厚实怀抱无声无息地包裹了她。
A solid embrace, infused with the scent of rain and warmth, silently envelops her.

雨终于停了。
The rain has finally stopped.

船只与木质乐器半沉在水中，海平面渗出微弱的金色光芒。
The horizon shimmers faintly with a golden light once more.

维尔汀：……我们成功了。
Vertin: We did it.

乌尔里希：恭喜你，司辰。
Ulrich: Congratulations, Timekeeper.

维尔汀：那我是不是也应该恭喜你，乌尔里希组长？
Vertin: I should be the one congratulating you. Don't you think, Mr. "Fish Tank"?

玻璃缸中的液体努力凝成了一个V字。
The ferrofluid in the glass tank struggles to form a V.

维尔汀：所以这一切真的如此巧合……
Vertin: It's an odd twist of fate, isn't it?

乌尔里希：是的，我已经向科算中心汇报了这一结论，对“暴雨”的研究终于能够步入新的阶段了。
Ulrich: Indeed. I've just reported our findings to Laplace. With this, our research on the "Storm" can finally advance to a new stage.

乌尔里希：它甚至让我对摇滚乐有所改观了——！
Ulrich: I've even managed to develop a taste for rock 'n' roll.

乌尔里希：♪～♫～～
Ulrich: ♪ ... ♫ ...

十四行诗：说起“暴雨”……
Sonetto: Speaking of the "Storm" ...

十四行诗抬头望天，一抹微光映在她的脸上。
Sonetto looks up at the sky, the reflection of the light on the water glimmering on her face.

漫无边际的徜徉似乎迎来了尽头。
This unfortunate cruise has finally come to an end.

星锑：哇啊——天亮了！
Regulus: Hey, here comes the sun! Woo-hoo!

十四行诗：“暴雨”并没有到来……司辰，您是对的……
Sonetto: I never doubted you, Timekeeper. There was no "Storm," not this time anyway.

维尔汀：谢谢你一直以来的信任，十四行诗。
Vertin: Thank you for your continued trust, Sonetto.

海浪声似乎变得渺远，某些更清晰而炽热的声响飘进了耳朵。
The sound of the waves seems to fade away as it's replaced by a new melody.

星锑：太酷了，我决不能错过这样一场海上派对！
Regulus: Smashing! This is sure to be the most fabulous boat party ever held! I wouldn't miss it for the world!

熟悉的、陌生的、来自无数故乡的歌儿在这片海上亲切地交织着。
Familiar and foreign songs from countless lands intertwine as voices carry gently over the sea.

海盗扑腾着海水，朝着歌声的方向奋力划去。
Regulus paddles fiercely toward the music.

歌唱的人们：<啊，梦中家乡，那儿野牛流浪，羚羊与小鹿儿尽情嬉戏>
Singing Crowd: Oh, give me a home where the buffalo roam, where the deer and the antelope play.

歌唱的人们：<啊，抛下烦恼，抛下难过悲伤，乌云呀早散在天外远方>
Singing Crowd: Where seldom is heard a discouraging word, and the skies are not cloudy all day.

歌唱的人们：<我们围坐在树荫中 享欢乐时光美而长>
Singing Crowd: There we have spent many an hour, sitting in a joyful circle.

歌唱的人们：<歌儿嘹亮 它久久回响 在橡树梢上>
Singing Crowd: And we sang, the songs resounding in the oak grove.

歌唱的人们：<～顽皮月儿闪烁，遮起它双眸～>
Singing Crowd: By moonlight, little can be seen.

歌唱的人们：<～人们找寻羽毛，人们找寻火～>
Singing Crowd: They looked for the pen, they looked for the fire.

歌唱的人们：<如此陈旧的忧郁，归于灵魂，它们飘然而至，在这静谧的清晨～♫>
Singing Crowd: Melancholy of the past visits my soul this tranquil morn.

歌唱的人们：<我在门前目送，她飞回家中～♫>
Singing Crowd: When I go out to see her, she flies back to her home.

熟悉的歌谣从恍惚的姑娘口中脱口而出。
A familiar ballad leaves Barcarola's lips.

芭卡洛儿：<月落海面上 银星多明亮>
Barcarola: Silver stars shine upon the sea.

芭卡洛儿：<浪花儿徜徉 轻拂我脸庞>
Barcarola: Feel the gentle waves and warm breeze.

芭卡洛儿：<请随风儿来 同乘小船上>
Barcarola: Sail with me beneath the stars.

芭卡洛儿：<桑塔露琪亚 桑塔露琪亚>
Barcarola: Santa Lucia, Santa Lucia.

星锑：唱得不错，芭卡洛儿～
Regulus: You have a truly heavenly voice, Barcarola!

星锑：话说，这到底是哪儿的曲子……我怎么从来没听过？
Regulus: I've never heard that song before. Where's it from?

图图石子：它一定和芭卡洛儿小姐一样，也来自克雷莫纳！
Fatutu: Oh, I know! It must be from Cremona!

芭卡洛儿：才、才不是！
Barcarola: N-No! It's a Neapolitan song. It has nothing to do with Cremona!

这是那不勒斯的曲子，和克雷莫纳没有半点儿关系——！

十四行诗：……是基金会的直升机！
Sonetto: That's a Foundation helicopter!

维尔汀：那座岛是……
Vertin: That island ...
