暗色带编织 - The Weaving of Shadows

目录

- Part 1
- Part 2
- Part 3
- Part 4
- Part 5

Part 1

女声：噢？有新朋友来了。
Female Voice: Oh? Looks like we've got a new arrival.

男声：这儿很暗……你没法假定那是个新来的。
Male Voice: It's pitch black in here. Can't be sure she's new just yet.

女声：嗨，新朋友！欢迎来到“美洲诗社”！
Female Voice: Hey there! Welcome to La Sociedad de Poetas de las Américas!

男声：还是说，她跟之前那几个逃出去又自愿回来的朋友们一样？
不说话就是默认了……没关系。我明白，这对于你而言是一趟多么珍贵的“重返暗夜之旅”。
Male Voice: Or maybe she's one of those who broke out and came back of her own accord?
Keeping quiet, huh? I get it. This must be a sacred moment for you. A "return to the darkness."

德洛丝：美洲……“诗社”？
Dores: La Sociedad de Poetas ... de las Américas?

一路走来的触感，与她此刻听到的名词大相径庭。凭借对音源的敏锐捕捉，医生在这个想象中略显宽敞的空间里停下了脚步。
一切陷入了寂静，就像人类史迎来了它最漫长的一分钟。
The textures she felt on her way here do not match the words she just heard. Guided by her keen hearing, she pauses mid-step in what seems to be a reasonably open space.
The room falls into silence—like the longest minute in human history.

德洛丝：……请问两位还在吗？
Dores: Are you still there?

黑暗中传来一声轻咳，和一道沉重的鼻息。
A faint cough, a heave of a sigh in the darkness.

德洛丝：两位曾与我是旧识吗？至少在记忆中，我是第一次来到这座监狱。
Dores: Pardon me, but have we met before? This is my first time in this prison, as far as I can recall.

女声：听听这个如此陌生的词汇——“监狱”！上一次听到它是什么时候？《叙事人》发表的那年吗？
难不成你是一位古老的、追寻现实主义的幽灵吗？
Female Voice: What a strange thing to say—"prison"! When was the last time we heard someone say that? Back when The Narrator was published?
Wait. You aren't some ancient ghost here in pursuit of realism, are you?

旁白：眼前的人故作神秘地说道。
There is a theatrical flair in her voice.

男声：锈迹斑斑的闸门，晦暗无光的牢房，“监狱”。
交换信件的栏杆，清幽僻静的空间，“诗社”。
以及，我们并不认识你。
Male Voice: Rusty gates, pitch-black cells—"prison."
Bars for exchanging letters, a peaceful and secluded place—"Sociedad de Poetas."
And no, we don't know you.

从回声的间隔来判断，三者间的距离足够他们在黑暗中勉强看清来客的样貌。
The three of them are spaced just far enough apart to barely make out each other's faces in the dark.

女声：加西亚举了一个很好的例子，正是这样！一切都取决于你看待这个世界的方式，新来的朋友。
Female Voice: What a wonderful example, García. Exactly! It all depends on how you choose to see the world, my new friend.

加西亚：罗贝托，我们时间不多了。这可是本月……不，也许是本年度最重要的一次集会。
García: Roberta, we don't have much time. This might be the most important gathering of the month—no, maybe even of the year.

罗贝托：你说的对，加西亚。眼下，没什么比理想家先生精心筹备的沙龙更重要的了。
Roberta: You're right, García. At this moment, nothing is more important than the salon the Idealist has so carefully prepared.

加西亚：你该先集中精力，把那堆手稿的顺序搞清楚。
García: You should focus on sorting out those manuscripts first.

德洛丝：——我无意打扰二位，但，请问你们的组织为什么叫做“美洲诗社”？我相信，那不会只是地理位置使然。
Dores: Pardon the interruption, but might I ask why your organization is called "La Sociedad de Poetas de las Américas"? I assume it isn't simply due to geography.

罗贝托：放心吧，女士，我们理应向每一位新朋友介绍我们的诗社——但不是现在。等沙龙结束，我们会向狱卒询问你的住处。
Roberta: Don't worry, Señora. We make it a point to introduce our Sociedad to every new friend, but now isn't quite the time. After the salon ends, we'll ask the jailer about your accommodations.

加西亚：等会儿，罗贝托，用你早已适应了黑暗的眼睛看看清楚……
她既不是个新人，也不是个重返者。她……她是个盲人。
García: Wait a minute. Roberta, your eyes are well-adjusted to the dark. Use them.
She's neither a newcomer nor a returnee. She … she's a blind woman.

罗贝托：噢，请原谅加西亚的粗鲁，女士！感官的缺陷有时能换来更为敏锐的直觉。在那个五彩斑斓的心灵世界中，您看到的一切一定比现实更美。
不过……如果您不是被狱医抓进来的，那为什么会出现在这儿呢？
Roberta: Ah, please forgive García's rudeness, Señora! A sensory limitation can sometimes bring sharper intuition. In that colorful world of the mind, I'm sure what you see is even more beautiful than reality.
But … if you weren't brought in by the Physician, then why are you here?

德洛丝：……
Dores: …

医生试图在思维中搭建虚构，为她那魔幻的遭遇自圆其说。
场景
She tries to construct a fiction in her mind, something that could justify the surreal nature of her arrival.

德洛丝：从圣保罗湿热的信风，到海崖边喧嚣的海潮。
此刻，陌生的土地用冰冷的沉默作为首次见面的招待。
Dores: From the humid trade winds of São Paulo to the crashing surf on the cliffs. Now, this strange land greets me for the first time with nothing but cold silence.

淑女格蕾丝：“将兀尔德女士安置于乌斯怀亚的科马拉监狱，不可将其视为普通囚犯对待。”
——依传道者的箴言，兀尔德女士，您是我们宝贵的座上宾。
Ms. Grace: "Ms. Urd is to be placed in Ushuaia's Comala Prison. She is not to be treated as an ordinary inmate."
In the words of the Preacher, you are our honored guest, Ms. Urd.

德洛丝：从那位小姐复述的话语中，我得知了这片土地的面目——乌斯怀亚。在幅员辽阔的美洲大陆上，它是最为边陲的南端。
我能感觉到那位小姐对我并无恶意……甚至恰恰相反。行走途中，我总是感受来自她的视线。
Dores: I've come to learn the name of this land, Ushuaia, from that young lady's retelling. It lies at the southernmost tip of the vast continent of South America.
As we walked, I could feel her gaze upon me. Steady, yet never intrusive. I could tell she meant me no harm.

淑女格蕾丝：关于您的身份与权宜，我已知会科马拉监狱的管理者，他会保障您的安全。
祝您好运，再见。
Ms. Grace: I've informed the administrator of Comala Prison of your identity and special circumstances. He will ensure your safety.
Good luck, and farewell.

德洛丝：她命令两名随从跟随在我身后，有什么东西正从他们身上滴落。这座奇异的建筑笼罩在一种我从未体验过的氛围中。
在了解这份异常的缘由之前，我必须先获得自由探索的权利。黑暗对我来说是一种幸运。甩开他们并非什么难事。
抱歉，两位称职的朋友。
嗯……我并不认识你口中的狱医，我是一名作家。因为对于你们的“沙龙”抱有崇敬之情，我前来参观，并希望从中取材。
Dores: I sensed I had been brought to a place most unusual—a building with a quiet peculiarity in the air. Two attendants followed close behind me, some form of liquid dripping from their faces.
I suppose I must claim a little freedom for myself in this place. I thought the darkness was a blessing. It wasn't too difficult to shake them off.
I'm sorry for your undue trouble, my diligent friends.
I'm a writer, and I mostly write under the name "Urd." I'm here for a short visit, hoping to find some inspiration for my next story. I'm afraid I don't know of this Physician you mentioned.

罗贝托：你听听，加西亚，这位女士是个好人，是位作家！你差点儿害咱们错过了一位专程前来的同好！
走吧，走吧，跟上我们。你一定会喜欢上我们的沙龙的！
Roberta: See, García? This lady is a writer! A good soul! You almost made us miss out on meeting a kindred spirit.
Come, come! I'm sure you'll fall in love with our salon!

加西亚：这……这与我无关。这儿很暗，但我想你已经习惯于在黑暗中行走……抱歉，我无意冒犯。
García: This … this has nothing to do with me. It's dark in here, but I suppose you've already grown used to walking in the dark. Sorry, I mean no offense.

Part 2

囚犯Ⅰ：有一天，我在一篇文章里读到了一个说法——说是你们智利人不喜欢巴洛克文学，大概是因为聒噪。你们天性沉默。
Inmate I: I read in an article once that you Chileans don't like Baroque literature—something about it being too noisy. You sure are a quiet bunch.

囚犯Ⅱ：噢？看来你们阿根廷人是相当地喜欢了？照我看，阿根廷人可是相当的吵闹。
Inmate II: Is that so? And you Argentinians just love it, right? If you're any metric to go by, I'd say you're all loud and obnoxious.

囚犯Ⅰ：你这家伙，仗着理想家先生缺席，就想将沙龙变成批评辩论赛！
Inmate I: You—just because the Idealist isn't here, you think you can turn this salon into a debate hall?!

囚犯Ⅱ：明明是你先……
Inmate II: You started it …

胡利奥：够了！有那贫嘴的功夫，不如把作品贴出来看看。
Julio: Enough! Stop squabbling and post your work so we can read it.

胡利奥：依我看，你们只是相较文体更热衷于韵律，我们丰富的拉丁美洲语言天生就具备丰富、善变与艺术性，就像巴洛克文学一样。
Julio: If you ask me, you're simply more interested in rhythm than form. Spanish is a rich language, one that is inherently expressive, ever-changing, and artistic—much like Baroque literature.

惯于沉默的男人为辩论浇了一桶冰块，令狱友们进入了难能可贵的冷静期。
The typically quiet man's words douse the argument like a cold splash of water, sending the group into a rare moment of calm.

罗贝托：哈哈！话说回来，我还挺真切地怀念他们的。自打那些疯疯癫癫的朋友们离开了诗社，咱们在意识流创作的探索上就少了很多乐趣。
Roberta: Haha! All jokes aside, I do miss them. Ever since those mad members left La Sociedad, we've had far fewer breakthroughs in stream-of-consciousness writing.

罗贝托：我倒是乐于讨论关于意识流创作中的“美学价值”。
Roberta: I, for one, would gladly discuss the "aesthetic value" of stream-of-consciousness composition.

随着新话题浮出水面，狱友们的音量又逐渐高昂了起来。
As this new topic surfaces, the inmates' voices begin to rise once again.

德洛丝：这是一场别开生面的文学沙龙，其中充满了情绪化、片面化的论调。
Dores: It was a most unusual literary salon, full of emotionally charged statements and biased opinions.

德洛丝：但我并不抵触这里的一切。相反，这些囚犯们给我一种不可思议的感觉。他们之中没有任何一个人将自己视作丧失自由的囚徒。
Dores: But I didn't mind it. In fact, my feeling was quite the opposite. The inmates give me an incredible feeling. Not one of them saw themselves as a prisoner stripped of their freedom.

德洛丝：这些热衷于文学的人们在一座废弃的监狱中相遇，共同建造了一座理想的国度。
Dores: A group of literature enthusiasts coming together in an abandoned prison and collaborating to build an ideal nation ...

德洛丝：一切就像一场约定。但从现实来讲，这里分明是一座隶属于政府的监狱。
Dores: It felt as though it was the result of some kind of pact. But in reality, it was clearly a government-run prison.

？？？：诸位——请安静一下！我有一件事情需要宣布。
???: Everyone, quiet down! I have something to announce.

陌生的女声打断了纪实作家心中打字机的咔咔作响。
An unfamiliar voice cuts off the clacking typewriter in Dores's mind.

未曾谋面的女作家从另一端的黑暗中走上了沙龙的中央，停驻于为发言者置备的白板与讲桌前。
A woman walks out from the far end of the darkness and steps into the center of the salon, stopping before the whiteboard and podium.

奥克塔维奥：由于私事，理想家先生将缺席本次沙龙。他在墙角的石头下压了一封信件，嘱托本人为本次文学沙龙的代言人。
Octavia: Mr. Idealist entrusted me with hosting the literature salon. He left a letter under a stone in the corner stating that he had a personal matter to attend to.

奥克塔维奥：在本期沙龙上，我将为大家公布我们之后的研究主题——
Octavia: For this session, I will now announce our next research topic—

奥克塔维奥：“社会现实关注与自我存在探寻的关系性”。
Octavia: "Fiction's Duality in Reflecting Reality and the Self."

座下一片哗然——显然，参与者们听到了一个与预期相悖的说法。
Heavy gasps, turned heads—an uproar spreads through the audience. Clearly, this wasn't the topic they were expecting.

她扬了扬手中的信件，做了一个噤声的手势。
She raises the letter in her hand in a gesture for silence.

奥克塔维奥：在场的各位同好们，未来的重要作家们……自十九世纪末以来，那些曾经震慑文学界的名字，现在也不过逐渐沦为了谈资。
Octavia: Like-minded fellows, aspiring writers ... Since the turn of the century, the names that once shook the literary world have gradually faded into obscurity.

奥克塔维奥：朋友们，文学已经沦为了边缘的艺术。人们走进剧院、电影院和艺术馆，欣赏油画、为雕塑驻足，却很少有人能完整地读完一本著作。
Octavia: Literature's been shoved aside in the world of art. People attend theaters, cinemas, and even art galleries to enjoy paintings and sculptures, but few can finish a book.

奥克塔维奥：当家庭遭分崩离析，当祖国被暴政蹂躏，我们美洲诗社究竟能做到什么？
Octavia: What is left for us to do? When families are torn apart and our nations are ravaged by tyranny?

奥克塔维奥：我们的武器就是小说！它应当毫不含糊地成为重大的、严肃的，一类对社会进步直接而起作用的工具。
Octavia: Let stories be our weapon! They should be the sword that cuts through the bloody truth! The beacon that lights our way forward!

底下的观众陷入了短暂的沉默。
The audience falls into silence.

加西亚：你可以试着写出一部属于拉丁美洲的《战争与和平》。
而我们则继续原来的沙龙主题——这并不矛盾。
García: You could try writing a Latin American War and Peace. And we could continue with our original salon topic. The two aren't mutually exclusive.

加西亚：……为了理想家先生先前所说的主题，我已经准备了足足一个月。
García: I've spent the whole month preparing for the topic the Idealist previously proposed.

加西亚：如果你执意要修改理想家先生的论题，那我就先行离开了。
García: If you insist on changing the subject, then I'm afraid I'll have to take my leave.

罗贝托：奥克塔维奥小姐……原谅我的打断，但这跟我们事先约定好的主题不一样。
Roberta: Ms. Octavia, forgive me for interrupting, but this isn't the topic we agreed on.

罗贝托：你所说的一切……我们是做不到那种事的！我们连自己的生活都没搞明白……
Roberta: Everything you've said … we just can't do that! We haven't even figured out things for ourselves yet.

胡利奥：奥克塔维奥，这个议题有点意思。
也许我们可以就这个主题聊点儿什么——但不会是现在。
Julio: Octavia, it's an interesting topic, it is. But perhaps we can talk about it another time.

胡利奥：另外，希望你别忘了自己的遭遇——正是因为你到处宣传“把小说当成武器”，才会被扔进这种地方。
Julio: Besides, don't forget the reason you're in here in the first place—for preaching that "the novel is a weapon."

囚犯Ⅰ：正如胡利奥所说——要不是拜你的富商老爹所赐，你这会儿应该在处刑台上，而不是在这里高谈阔论。
Inmate I: Yeah, if it weren't for your rich daddy, you'd be on the gallows, not standing here preaching to us.

闻言，支持奥克塔维奥的囚犯出言反驳。
Another prisoner stands, his voice clear.

囚犯Ⅲ：你们根本没弄懂奥克塔维奥小姐的意思！伟大的作家就应当像个偏执的掘墓人一样，在时代的坟茔中挖出社会现实主义的腐肉！
Inmate III: You've completely missed Ms. Octavia's point! A great writer should be like an obsessive gravedigger, digging up the rotting flesh of social realism from the grave of our times!

囚犯Ⅲ：只有这个庞大的社会熔炉，才有资格成为我们文学上的宿主！
Inmate III: Only this vast crucible is worthy to be the host of our literature!

德洛丝：加西亚先生略显抵触，胡利奥先生严厉提醒，而罗贝托小姐则注重劝解。
Dores: At that time, Mr. García looked visibly resistant as Mr. Julio issued stern reminders and Ms. Roberta attempted to mediate.

德洛丝：之后，更多的人参与了辩论，一些为奥克塔维奥小姐说话的声音逐渐出现了。诗社的成员们在无形中分为了两派。
Dores: More and more members joined the debate, and voices both for and against Ms. Octavia's proposal emerged. It didn't take long for La Sociedad to split into two camps.

德洛丝：那时，我意识到自己需要做些什么，来中止这场彻底误入歧途的文学沙龙。
Dores: That was when I realized I needed to do something—to get this derailed literary salon back on the tracks.

德洛丝：请允许我自我介绍，我是来自圣保罗的德洛丝。我的笔名是“兀尔德”，我也是一名作家。
Dores: Please allow me to introduce myself. I'm Dores, from São Paulo. I'm a writer, and I mostly write under the name "Urd."

奥克塔维奥：兀尔德……？我好像在哪儿看到过这个名字……
Octavia: Urd? That name sounds familiar.

奥克塔维奥：等等，您是给UTTU杂志投稿的那个“兀尔德”吗？天呐，我没想到今天竟然会迎来一位这样的贵客！我很喜欢您投稿的那篇《圣保罗锌皮兵》。
Octavia: Have you written for UTTU? Are you the Urd in UTTU? Wow, I never imagined we'd be welcoming such an honored guest today! I thoroughly enjoyed your piece titled The Tin Soldiers of São Paulo.

德洛丝：是的……此次前来拜访科马拉监狱，也是取材的重要部分。
Dores: It's an important part of my visit to hear all the ideas and opinions, if you'll pardon my intrusion.

奥克塔维奥：那，请问兀尔德女士，您又是如何看待我们今天的沙龙主题呢？
Octavia: Then, tell me, Ms. Urd, what are your thoughts on today's salon topic?

难题出现了，涉及到认知偏好、创作立场与政治倾向。
A difficult question, one involving preference, a creative stance, and a political alignment.

天秤的两端向来难以平衡。何况，此类问题最重要的从来都不是答案本身。
A scale that is never easily balanced. However, the answer has never been the most important part of such questions.

德洛丝：就我个人的了解来说，文学一直处于世界的边缘地带。被漠视、被排外、被误解。就像……
Dores: In these restless times, literature has been overlooked, forgotten, pushed to the edges of the world ...

德洛丝：是的，就像乌斯怀亚一样。
Dores: Much like Ushuaia.

在座的各位反应不一。有的陷入沉思，有的赞许点头，有的面带疑惑。听众们并未意识到话题的转变。
Some fall into deep thought, others nod in agreement, and a few look puzzled. The audience is largely unaware that the topic has already shifted.

德洛丝：对于大多数人来说，这座位于世界尽头的监狱太过遥远、太过寒冷，甚至可以说是太过绝望。
Dores: To most, this prison at the end of the world is a distant, cold place. Perhaps even a place of hopelessness.

德洛丝：当一名囚犯刚被送到这里来的时候，我们能够想象：他首先感受到的是一滩死水，一滩平静的绝望。
Dores: When a prisoner is first sent here, I cannot help but imagine that the first thing they feel is a stagnant pool of water and a calm, quiet despair.

医生抓住了这个稍纵即逝的机会，试图让文学沙龙从立场争斗的泥沼中重回正轨。
She seizes this chance to guide the literary salon back from the muddy trenches of ideology.

那些望着河流、小船与散尾葵敲下打字机的时日浮现于眼前，令医生的话语顺畅了起来——文字是诚实的，关于文字的一切并不是谎言。
She recalls the days of typing while looking out over the river, boats, and palm trees. Words are honest. They have no capacity to lie.

德洛丝：我来到此地，正是为我的下一部作品取材。我会如实地记录我在此处所经历、所聆听到的一切。
Dores: I came here to gather material for my next book. I plan to record everything I experience in this place—faithfully.

奥克塔维奥：那么，兀尔德女士，请问您打算写一部什么样的作品呢？它是一部纪实文学吗？它的主题和科马拉监狱有关吗？
Octavia: And what kind of work are you planning to write? A nonfiction piece, I presume? About Comala Prison?

德洛丝：它的主题是——“命运”。
Dores: Its theme is "Fate."

Part 3

奥克塔维奥：命运……是的，我应该想到它，命运。一个宏大而又与每个人息息相关的主题！
Octavia: Fate … yes. It looms over us, yet each of us may hold the power to steer its course.

奥克塔维奥：就像这个充满矛盾的国家，它的命运也应该……
Octavia: Just like this nation of contradictions. Its fate should also be …

罗贝托：咳咳，既然如此，让我们正式进入本次沙龙的环节吧。
Roberta: Ahem! In that case, shall we officially begin this salon?

善于察言观色的诗社成员连忙打断了眼睑湿润的奥克塔维奥。
The ever-observant Roberta, noticing the tears welling in Octavia's eyes, cuts her off.

罗贝托：有谁愿意就这个主题分享一些故事吗？
Roberta: Would anyone like to share a story on this topic?

罗贝托：无论是亲身经历还是撰写的故事，咱们得让这次沙龙热闹起来！
Roberta: Whether it's a personal experience or a written tale, let's bring some life to this salon!

罗贝托：如果没人愿意说的话，我也可以勉为其难地再讲一遍我横穿墨西哥边境的命运之旅……
Roberta: Well, if no one has anything to say, I could always retell the story of my fateful journey across the Mexican border …

“哗啦——”
*screech*

寡言的男性率先站起身，所有人的视线都集中于他那高大颧骨下的阴霾。
A chair screeches as one man stands. All eyes fall on his face, shadowed by his heavy brow and sharp cheekbones.

这是一个意料之外的转折。没有人注意到人群身后的阴影。
An unexpected twist. No one noticed him quietly sitting at the edge of the crowd until now.

胡利奥：我的前半辈子是个银行柜员。有一天，我坐在柜台的玻璃罩里，望着一沓接一沓的支票、文件、传单，我忽然觉得这是一场无期徒刑。
Julio: I spent the first half of my life as a bank clerk. One day, sitting behind that glass window, staring at the endless stacks of checks, papers, and flyers, it hit me. I was serving a life sentence.

胡利奥：我辞了职，打算回家写点儿什么。妻子知道了之后，起初是大吵大闹，之后是微缩文明的世纪冷战，最后是一个单方面的驱逐令。
Julio: So I quit, went home, and decided to write something. My wife threw a fit at first, but when I wouldn't budge, a cold war broke out between us, and then finally, she issued a unilateral eviction notice.

胡利奥：我喝了个大醉，在街上给一个殴打乞丐的混账军官结结实实地来了一拳，后面的事儿不记得了。恢复意识以后，我就已经来到了这儿，一个比家更像家的地方。
Julio: I got drunk, punched a bastard officer who was beating a beggar in the street, and everything after that's a blur. When I came to, I was already here—a place that feels more like home than any other place ever did.

胡利奥：理想家先生喂我喝了点儿水，并建议我给阿莱夫写信。
Julio: The Idealist gave me some water and suggested I write to Aleph.

胡利奥：我照他说的做了。我写了信，问了问题。
Julio: So I did. I wrote a letter and asked a question.

胡利奥：两周之后，我收到了回信。上面只有一行字，我仍在试图领悟其中的道理。
Julio: Two weeks later, I got a reply. Just one line. I'm still trying to figure out what it means.

胡利奥：“在人生的有限时间里，存在一个无限延伸的楼梯，而终点，不过是一片寂静的水域。”
Julio: "In the short span of life, there exists an infinitely extending staircase, and at its end lies nothing but a silent body of water."

罗贝托：胡利奥，我都不知道你有这么一段精彩的过去。之前怎么没听你提起过？
Roberta: Julio, I had no idea you had such a story. Why haven't you mentioned it before?

奥克塔维奥：我也不知道……原来你也给阿莱夫写过信。
Octavia: I didn't know you've written to Aleph too.

胡利奥：奥克塔维奥，也许你的课题是对的。像你这样充满朝气的青年作家，应该怀着改变社会的梦。
Julio: Octavia, maybe you did choose the right topic. Young, passionate writers like you should carry the dream of changing society.

胡利奥：不要像我一样，到了这个岁数才真正决定拿起那杆笔。
Julio: Don't end up like me—waiting until this age to finally pick up the pen.

奥克塔维奥：……噢？
Octavia: Oh?

代理主持人已沉迷在故事会中，逐渐忘怀了那个原本严肃的主题。
The hostess, fully engrossed in the story, has almost forgotten all about the topic.

罗贝托：很好，接下来总归轮到我来分享横穿墨西哥边境……
Roberta: Great. I suppose it's my turn, then. So, here's my tale of crossing the Mexican border—

囚犯Ⅲ：省省吧！你那点儿故事我都听过七八个版本的了。甚至还没算上短篇小说集里的那五篇——
Inmate III: For heaven's sake, spare us! I've heard at least seven or eight versions of that story already. Not to mention the five short stories in your collection.

囚犯Ⅲ：你把一个故事写了整整五遍，其差异性不过只是视角上的转换！
Inmate III: Five stories, Roberta, five! And the only difference between them is the narrative perspective!

加西亚：重复性叙事的确也是文学批评中的一个重要课题——
García: Repetitive narrative is indeed an important topic in literary criticism ...

余下的时间里，囚犯陷入了喧哗与骚动的故事会中。
The remainder of the salon is spent in noisy chatter as the storytelling quickly spirals out of control.

唯有德洛丝医生默念了一遍那个唐突的名字。
Only Doctor Dores quietly repeats that name to herself.

德洛丝：“阿、莱、夫”……？
Dores: "Aleph"?

德洛丝：胡利奥先生的往事是一份意料之外的收获，它很适合编撰为一本传记。在下一次的投稿中，我会将它作为一份珍重的材料使用。
Dores: Mr. Julio's past was an unexpected gold nugget—the perfect material for a biography. I'll treat it with care in my next submission.

德洛丝：回过神来，这场文学沙龙令我已经逐渐忘记了自己正身处监狱之中的事实。
Dores: By then, I had nearly forgotten I was still in prison. I had been swept up in the literary salon.

德洛丝：我会在写作中毫无保留地描绘我所认知与经历的一切。至于他们是否是真正的囚犯，这将交由敬爱的读者们来评判。
Dores: I resolved to record all that I witnessed in this prison. As to whether the inhabitants are truly prisoners—that will be for the readers to decide.

德洛丝：那时，我并未听由直觉去询问他们进入监狱的理由，而是如他们一般，思考着更为纯粹的事物。
Dores: At the time, I did not ask how they found their way into this prison. Like them, I was thinking of purer things.

德洛丝：如今，当我回忆起整段旅程，那些盘根错节的魔鬼涎呈现出一种相互联结的构造。
Dores: Looking back on this journey, I now see that the tangled strands of las babas del diablo had formed an interconnected web.

就在沙龙进行得如火如荼之时，阴影中浮现出一张脸庞，其中只有笑容清晰可见。
Just as the salon gets into full swing, a face emerges from the shadows, only the smile clearly visible.

理想家：我很少以旁观者的视角，来接纳沙龙每一种别有趣味的象征、每一个细枝末节的隐喻。
The Idealist: Rarely do I observe the salon from afar, taking in all its symbolic quirks and subtle metaphors.

理想家：现实与非现实的桥梁，典型与非典型的诗意！
这正是我在创办之初对于“美洲诗社”的设想。
The Idealist: The bridge between reality and unreality, the poetry of the typical and the atypical! This is exactly how I envisioned La Sociedad de Poetas de las Américas when I founded it.

新到来的囚犯吸引了医生的注意力。
The new arrival catches her attention.

德洛丝：现实与非现实……您指的是纪实文学与虚构文学的差异性吗？
我想，我还未能完全理解您的深意……
Dores: Reality and unreality … Are you referring to the difference between nonfiction and fiction? I'm afraid I haven't quite grasped your full meaning.

理想家：噢，但你至少能够理解其中的部分，不是吗？由此可见，我们共同行走在一条追求始终如一的美学的道路上！
The Idealist: Ah, but you understood at least part of it, didn't you? That alone proves we're walking the same path—the unwavering pursuit of aesthetic truth!

理想家：我们是文学王国的臣民，我们是追逐第一束抵达新大陆边界的光的观星者，我们是在树下望着纯粹的理想之果而流涕的孩子。
The Idealist: We are citizens of the literary kingdom, stargazers chasing the first light to reach the shores of the New World, children crying beneath the tree of pure ideals.

理想家：——以创办者的名义，我诚挚地邀请您加入美洲诗社，成为我们中的一员。
The Idealist: As its founder, I sincerely invite you to join La Sociedad de Poetas de las Américas and become one of us.

德洛丝：加入……美洲诗社？
Dores: Join … La Sociedad de Poetas de las Américas?

一个无可挑剔的绅士礼，一份难以拒绝的盛情邀约。
A gentlemanly bow. An invitation that is hard to refuse.

这里的一切都别有奥妙——眼前的文学盛会、萦绕着奇异氛围的建筑，还有那位神秘的收信人。
Everything here carries an air of mystery—the literary gathering, the strange architecture, the enigmatic recipient of all those letters.

不可多得的良机，医生对自己说。
A rare opportunity.

德洛丝：……我愿意答应您的邀请，参与各位的集会与活动。
Dores: I'm truly flattered by your invitation. I'd be delighted to join the poetry society.

德洛丝：但我还有一个问题，理想家先生。
——您自称为创办者，我猜您就是那位“理想家”，对吗？
Dores: But might I trouble you with one question, Mr. Idealist? You call yourself the founder, so I assume you are THE "Idealist," yes?

理想家：但问无妨。
The Idealist: Ask away.

德洛丝：您能告诉我关于“阿莱夫”的事情吗？
Dores: Could you tell me about "Aleph"?

Part 4

德洛丝：迄今，我已作为亲历者参与了“美洲诗社”的数次集会。
Dores: Up to this point, I have participated firsthand in several sessions of La Sociedad de Poetas de las Américas.

德洛丝：那些文学实验将文字视为一种高级的游戏，将现实与虚构交织成一道无形的网，把在场的所有人紧紧捕捉在这语言的迷宫里。
Dores: Those literary experiments treated language as an advanced game, weaving reality and fiction into an invisible web, ensnaring everyone present in a maze of words.

德洛丝：在此之前，我从未如此近距离地接触、思考文学，我为文字与语言在趣味性和价值性上有如此直观的表现力而感到惊叹。
Dores: Never before had I been so intimate with literature or thought about it so deeply. I was amazed by how words could so vividly express both playfulness and values.

德洛丝：直到那个寻常的午后，名叫爱德华多的诗人正以考究的节奏朗诵着自己的新作，奥克塔维奥小姐在与我交谈圣保罗的社会现状。
Dores: Until that ordinary afternoon, when a poet named Edoardo was reciting his new piece with refined rhythm, and Ms. Octavia was discussing the state of São Paulo with me.

德洛丝：没有人察觉到胡利奥先生的异常。
Dores: No one noticed anything unusual about Mr. Julio's condition.

奥克塔维奥：就像您在《圣保罗锌皮兵》里写就的那般——
Octavia: Just like you wrote in The Tin Soldiers of São Paulo:

奥克塔维奥：“伟大的拉丁美洲因富庶而遭受不幸，又因不幸而被不知餍足的贪欲撕咬。一个人的贫穷是另一个人的盛宴，苦难滋养着幸福，它们就像河的两岸，泾渭分明。”
Octavia: "The greatness of Latin America lies in its richness, and from that richness comes misfortune, gnawed by insatiable greed. One man's poverty is another's feast. Suffering nourishes joy. They are like riverbanks, clearly divided."

奥克塔维奥：这种两面性，这种两难的境界，不正是我们应该用文学去提出的问题——
Octavia: This duality, this paradox—isn't it precisely the kind of question we should be posing through literature?

骨骼与硬物碰撞的闷响从不远处传来，打断了她的话题。不远处，正在用头撞墙的男人吸引了在场所有人的注意力。
The thud of bone against a hard surface interrupts her. Julio is banging his head against the wall.

胡利奥：还不够……还不够！这种程度、是没法、抓住、空间和时间的。
Julio: Not enough, not enough! Not like this—you can't grasp—space and time!

胡利奥：我还缺少、某些必要的、语言体系、和思维……！！
Julio: I'm still missing—some essential—language frameworks—and thought patterns …!!

胡利奥：以我们目前的、语言体系、来说，我没有办法、抓住、时间的幽灵，只能、任由它、从我的笔尖、流逝……
Julio: With our current—language system—I cannot catch—the ghost of time. I can only—let it—slip away—from the tip of my pen …

奥克塔维奥：胡利奥先生，您这是怎么了？！
Octavia: Mr. Julio, what's wrong with you?!

同紧张的奥克塔维奥相比，胡利奥四周的囚犯都显得无动于衷。
Unlike the panicked Octavia, the other inmates around Julio seem unfazed.

囚犯Ⅳ：那是不可逾越的高墙，胡利奥……我早就告诉过你了。看在诗歌的份上，我可以把上周领的绷带借你一点儿。
Inmate IV: That wall is unscalable, Julio. I told you already. I can lend you some of my bandages from last week if you need them.

囚犯Ⅳ：对于一个永久沉默的对象，任何形式的诉说都是一场徒劳。到最后，你只是在和自己的影子较劲。
Inmate IV: For a permanently silent object, any form of narration is futile. In the end, you're just wrestling with your own shadow.

奥克塔维奥：你们……在干什么？为什么不阻止胡利奥？！不行，我得做些什么……
Octavia: What are you all standing around for? Can't you see Julio's hurting himself?

面对慌张的青年女性，医生知道，她需要先尽可能排除可能干扰施救的外部因素。
Octavia is clearly flustered. Dores knows she must first eliminate any outside interference that might obstruct her ability to help.

德洛丝：奥克塔维奥小姐，请你先冷静下来。告诉我，在你眼中的世界发生了什么？
Dores: Ms. Octavia, please calm down. Tell me—what do you see?

奥克塔维奥：啊，对不起！是胡利奥先生……他……他流血了！
Octavia: It's Mr. Julio! He's hurt! Bleeding!

奥克塔维奥：他试图用头撞破语言边界的镜子……但那其实是一堵墙！
Octavia: He tried to break through the mirror of language with his head. But it was actually a wall!

如今，医生已经学会了如何忽视诗社成员们特有的非现实修饰，以正确理解现状。
By now, Dores has learned how to filter out the surreal embellishments typical of La Sociedad members in order to correctly assess the situation.

——镜子还是墙？那不重要。
Mirror or wall? It doesn't matter.

德洛丝：请你仔细观察一下，并尽可能不带修饰地告知我：胡利奥先生的状态如何？
Dores: Please take a closer look and describe what you see—clearly and without embellishment. What is Mr. Julio's condition?

奥克塔维奥：……他的肌肉在不住地痉挛，如同被一股冰冷的电流击中；他的面部开始紧绷、扭曲，仿佛在与一场无声的斗争抗衡；他的手指也蜷曲成不自然的姿势……
Octavia: His muscles are spasming uncontrollably, as if jolted by a cold electric current; his face is tightening, twisting, like he's struggling against a silent force. His fingers are curling into unnatural shapes …

奥克塔维奥：他的表情正在反复地变化……先是痛苦，然后是惊恐，最后是茫然……
Octavia: His expression keeps changing. First pain, then panic, and finally … blankness.

德洛丝：初步判断，那应该是某种脑部的神经疾病……如果是癫痫，我想我可以帮到他。
Dores: Sounds like he's having an epileptic seizure. Perhaps I could offer some help.

医生循着声音的方向，接近了头破血流的胡利奥。
Guided by the sound of Julio's whimpers, Dores approaches. His head is bloodied.

德洛丝：奥克塔维奥小姐，我需要你的帮助。你能让他先停止自我伤害的动作，并尽可能躺在平地上保持侧卧吗？
Dores: Please, Ms. Octavia. Help me, so I can help him. Could you lay him down flat on his side? We have to stop him from hurting himself.

奥克塔维奥：我、我可以用我的神秘术帮上忙……！
Octavia: I—I can use my arcane skill!

德洛丝：奥克塔维奥小姐，你的神秘术会伴随强光吗？我想你现在不能使用它，否则会起到截然相反的效果——刺激性的光源会让癫痫更加严重。
Dores: Flashing lights could worsen an epileptic seizure. Does your arcane skill emit intense light? If so, I must ask you to refrain from using it.

奥克塔维奥慌张地收起了术式。她按住胡利奥的肩膀，以蛮力将其放置于冰冷而坚硬的地面。
Octavia hurriedly retracts her incantation. She presses down on Julio's shoulder and lowers him onto the cold, hard floor.

医生迅速跪下，将男子轻轻侧卧，防止他在抽搐中撞伤。
The doctor kneels quickly and gently turns the man onto his side, preventing him from injuring himself any further.

德洛丝：随着时间的推移，胡利奥先生的抽搐逐渐减弱，但身体依旧僵硬，牙关紧闭。我从医疗箱中取出一次性舌垫，小心地放入他的口腔中，防止他咬伤自己。
Dores: As time passed, Mr. Julio's convulsions began to subside, but his body remained stiff, his jaw clenched tight. I took a disposable bite pad from the first-aid kit and carefully placed it in his mouth to keep him from biting himself.

德洛丝：情况逐渐得到了控制，胡利奥先生的呼吸逐渐趋于平稳。
Dores: Eventually, the situation came under control, and Mr. Julio's breathing stabilized.

德洛丝：大家重新开始了集会，似乎这只是一个无关紧要的小小插曲。
Dores: And there everyone went, straight back to the gathering as if it were only a minor inconvenience.

奥克塔维奥：谢谢您的出手援助，兀尔德女士。
Octavia: Thank you for your help, Ms. Urd.

医生以一个无声的微笑作答。
The doctor responds with a silent smile.

奥克塔维奥：您在圣保罗也经常做这样的事情，对吗？
Octavia: You seem experienced. Was it a major part of your responsibilities in São Paulo?

德洛丝：是的。救助他人才是我的本职，而写作是我的一份爱好。在我的那座小屋里，在每一位病人面前，我首先是一名医生。
Dores: Yes. Saving others is my profession; writing is my hobby. In my home, I am first and foremost a doctor.

奥克塔维奥：兀尔德女士，我对您感到由衷的敬佩。无论是身为医生、身为作家，还是身为一个社会身份之前的人。
Octavia: Ms. Urd, you have my utmost admiration. As a doctor, as a writer, and even more as a person beyond any social categorization.

奥克塔维奥：作为一个真正在河岸贫民区生活的医生，您在将文字作为武器之前，首先将枪口对准了自己。
Octavia: You, a doctor who actually lived in the favelas, pointed the barrel at yourself before wielding your words as a weapon.

奥克塔维奥：与您相比，我不仅没能取得什么像样的成就，还时常因为将理想挂在嘴边……
Octavia: Compared to you, I've achieved nothing of substance. All I do is wave ideals around. As if that's enough …

德洛丝：奥克塔维奥小姐，我这一类兴致使然的写作者，也许无法为你提供具体的帮助与建议，也远没有你说的那般伟大。
Dores: Ms. Octavia, I am simply a writer who follows her curiosity. I'm afraid I'm not qualified to provide you with any concrete advice, nor am I as great as you say.

德洛丝：但至少，我相信一点：于你的文学理想而言，自我审视是必要的一环，而你正好拥有这项宝贵的品德。
Dores: You're well-prepared for your vision and ambition, for modesty is such an essential part of writing, and you've just demonstrated a skillful use of introspection.

奥克塔维奥：好的……无论如何，谢谢您。我想回自己的房间思索一会儿，明天见！
Octavia: Thank you for your kind words. But I'd like to return to my room and think for a while. See you tomorrow.

奥克塔维奥：理想家所追求的理想，是在文学大厦上造就一座伟大的景观。
Octavia: The Idealist pursues his ideal to erect a magnificent vision atop the tower of literature.

奥克塔维奥：但是，对于大厦之外的人们来说，那份伟大又能带来什么呢？
Octavia: But for those outside the tower, what good is that magnificence?

奥克塔维奥：眼下，我被关在监狱里，我的文字没法从这个边缘之地传达出去，就连保命都要靠我那面目可憎的父亲。
Octavia: Here I am, locked away in a prison, my words going no further than these walls. I even only have my life because of my wretched father.

奥克塔维奥：也许……用信念来疗愈病灶是愚昧的；也许，我们与中世纪那些被焚烧的异教徒并无区别。
Octavia: It was foolish to think that ideas alone could ease people's pain. Maybe we're no different from the heretics who were burned at the stake in the Middle Ages.

奥克塔维奥：也许……只有像兀尔德女士这样具有专业素养的医生，才能拯救具体的人。
Octavia: Perhaps only professionals like Ms. Urd—doctors with real expertise—can truly save a person.

奥克塔维奥：等会儿……这座监狱的确有一个医生，一个用来应对所有问题的医生，而精神领域正是他的专业。
Octavia: Wait … but this prison does have a doctor. A doctor meant to handle every kind of issue, whose specialty is precisely in the mental field.

奥克塔维奥：可他不仅仅是个医生——他还是这座监狱的实际管理者！
Octavia: But he's not just a doctor. He's the overseer of this prison!

奥克塔维奥：我曾问过理想家先生，为什么这里的管理者不是典狱长或警署，而是一位狱医。不出所料，他用那套厉害的理想式话术糊弄了我。
Octavia: I once asked the Idealist why the person in charge here wasn't a regular jailer or a police chief, but a Physician. As expected, he brushed me off with some grandiose, idealistic rhetoric.

奥克塔维奥：但为什么理想家先生一直那样抵触狱医呢？
Octavia: But why has the Idealist always seemed so opposed to the Physician?

奥克塔维奥：为什么……不能将胡利奥先生这样饱受折磨的病患送到他那儿去？
Octavia: Why can't patients like Mr. Julio, who are clearly suffering, be sent to him?

奥克塔维奥：我不明白……不明白的事情越来越多了。我的头好疼……
Octavia: Puzzles on top of puzzles. Questions after questions. My head ...

一声叹息回荡在空洞的环形建筑之中。随后，无数声叹息回应了她。
Her sigh echoes through the circular building, and it is soon answered by a chorus of other sighs.

奥克塔维奥：也许，我已经没法再……
Octavia: I can't do this anymore.

德洛丝：奥克塔维奥小姐转身离去了。她看起来有些内心挫伤，但我能够看到一股不可动摇的、不可熄灭的力量在驱使着她前进。
Dores: Ms. Octavia turned and walked away. Though she looked disheartened, I could still see the power of the unwavering force that drove her forward.

德洛丝：……对于我来说，那会是什么呢？
Dores: What would that force be for me?

德洛丝：回想起来，那时我也陷入了自我审视之中——我开始思考“命运”，思考一种宏伟而不可逆转的力量。
Dores: Looking back, I too began to reflect on myself—to contemplate "fate," that grand and irreversible force.

Part 5

德洛丝：在那之后，我又参与了数次文学沙龙，并写了一些从未尝试过的文字。但无论何时，奥克塔维奥小姐都未出现。
Dores: After that, I attended several more literary salons and wrote things I had never dared write before. Ms. Octavia, however, never made an appearance.

德洛丝：直到某一天，我跟着囚犯们前往了一个宽敞的空间，听见了她在不远处与一些陌生囚犯交谈的声音。
Dores: I didn't see her for quite some time. That was until I followed some prisoners to a large hall and heard her voice among a group of unfamiliar inmates.

德洛丝：她注意到了我，向我热情地打了招呼。她告诉我，最近正在准备一些事宜。
Dores: She noticed me and greeted me warmly. She told me she had been working on some new initiatives.

德洛丝：她希望拉拢更多的力量，物质上改善监狱内的生活质量，精神上作出积极的转变与现实性的抗争。
Dores: She told me of her hopes to gather more support—to improve conditions in the prison and initiate a spiritual shift toward realism and resistance.

德洛丝：我曾如此笃信：一切都在往好的方向进行着。
Dores: I truly believed, back then, that everything was heading in the right direction.

在众人的视线下，议会的主持人理想家走上了主持台。
Before all eyes, the host of the assembly, the Idealist, steps up to the podium.

理想家：我们基于命运的随机性来到此处，参与科马拉议会。
The Idealist: By the randomness of fate, we have gathered here to participate in the Comala Congress.

理想家：在命运之神、所有历史学家与占星师的共同注视下，我将宣读一则额外的规则变化：
The Idealist: Before the eyes of destiny, historians, and astrologers alike, I now declare a new rule amendment:

理想家：“一次瞩目的决斗。胜者得到了十磅金子，败者引来了十只蝇虫。”
The Idealist: "A duel before a crowd of eager eyes. The winner awarded ten pounds of gold, and the loser left with ten flies to descend upon him."

理想家：我们将在本届科马拉议会开始之前，赋予两位诗社成员一个崇高的使命——一次命运使然的光荣决斗。
The Idealist: Before the Comala Congress convenes, we shall assign two members of La Sociedad this noble mission—a duel decreed by fate.

旁观的医生听到了一个沉闷的小物件在箱子里晃动的声音。
Dores hears the faint clink of a small object rattling inside a box.

理想家：何塞，胡利奥，请走上前来，拔出你们文学思想中最锐利的那一柄剑！
The Idealist: José, Julio, step forward and draw the sharpest blade of your literary thought!

理想家：根据规则，我将公平公正地主持这场决斗——请双方做好决斗准备！
The Idealist: According to the rules, I will preside over this duel with fairness and impartiality. Now, prepare yourselves!

一场荒谬的、虚构的、形而上的决斗在零点几秒内宣布了结束。胜利的囚犯得到了十颗金灿灿的药丸，而失败者重重地倒在了地上。
The absurd, fictional, metaphysical duel ends within a fraction of a second. The victorious prisoner receives ten shining golden pills, while the loser collapses to the floor.

四周陷入了喧哗。其中，奥克塔维奥的惊叫尤其明显。
The crowd erupts into chaos, Octavia's cries rising above the noise.

德洛丝：……？奥克塔维奥小姐，请问发生了什么？
Dores: What's going on?

奥克塔维奥：胡利奥先生……他、他好像又犯癫痫了！
Octavia: Mr. Julio … He—he's having another seizure!

奥克塔维奥：兀尔德女士，他需要你的帮助！
Octavia: Ms. Urd, please, Julio needs your help!

理想家：奥克塔维奥，你知道的，这是命运随机性的一部分。
The Idealist: Octavia, you know this is all part of the randomness of fate.

奥克塔维奥：命运的……随机性……？
Octavia: The randomness ... of fate?

出乎意料的是，她并未像往常那般激昂争辩，而是沉默地、呆滞地停在原地——就像是被某个词唬住了似的。
She doesn't argue back as she usually would. Instead, she stands frozen in place, as if stunned.

德洛丝：你怎么了，奥克塔维奥小姐？现在的情况十分紧急，请你协助我……
Dores: What's the matter, Ms. Octavia? This is an emergency. I require your assistance.

理想家：回答我，奥克塔维奥——你为什么想要改变胡利奥的命运？
The Idealist: Answer me, Octavia. Why are you trying to change Julio's fate?

奥克塔维奥：因为……任何人都不该这样死去……
Octavia: Because … no one should die like this …

奥克塔维奥：因为……我不想让他死去。
Octavia: I don't want him to die.

德洛丝：奥克塔维奥小姐，我需要你的协助……
Dores: Please, Ms. Octavia, help me, so I can help him.

奥克塔维奥：我、我……
Octavia: I—I …

忽然间，她的说话声停止了，空气中只余她难以掩饰的哽咽。
Her voice cracks, leaving only the sound of her stifled sobs lingering in the air.

德洛丝：你怎么了，奥克塔维奥小姐？现在的情况如何了？
Dores: What's wrong, Ms. Octavia? How's his condition now?

德洛丝：奥克塔维奥小姐……？
Dores: Ms. Octavia?

奥克塔维奥：……
Octavia: …

她在凝滞的时间中沉默着。许久后，她将一块沉重的石头投入了深不见底的水域。
She remains silent. After a long pause, she casts the heavy stone into the bottomless water.

奥克塔维奥：兀尔德女士。
Octavia: Ms. Urd.

奥克塔维奥：……在决斗结束的瞬间，胡利奥先生就已经永远离开了我们。
Octavia: Mr. Julio is gone. He left us the moment the duel was over.

那怎么可能？
How could that be?

癫痫患者的任何一次发病都可能引发不可逆的颅脑损伤从而致死——但怎么会如此之快？
Seizures can potentially lead to irreversible brain damage, but how could it happen so fast?

如此珍贵的生命，如此短暂的时间，在一阵不可理喻的簸荡声后，随着一场不可理喻的决斗而逝去。
A precious life, gone so quickly, swept away by something so senseless, lost in a nonsensical duel.

德洛丝：这场所谓的“议会”究竟是什么？是独属于科马拉监狱的刑罚体系吗？但……一个人的生命怎么可能靠这种荒谬的戏码就被判定呢？
Dores: What exactly is this so-called "Congress"? Some kind of punitive system unique to Comala Prison? But how can someone's life be decided by something so absurd?

德洛丝：难道人注定要屈服于一切荒诞的命运，无论它多么离奇、多么无从辩驳？这分明是一种扭曲的宿命——那与我所追求的“命运”，显然是相悖的。
Dores: Are we simply meant to surrender to a fate so twisted, no matter how absurd it is? Is it so irrefutable? This isn't the "fate" I seek. It's a distortion of it.

奥克塔维奥：是我的错，是我还没有找到更好的办法……
Octavia: It's my fault, for not finding a better way.

奥克塔维奥：我曾经以为，胡利奥先生除了自己的小说之外没有任何在意的东西。我也从未想过我的那些想法能打动胡利奥先生……
Octavia: I used to think Mr. Julio didn't care about anything but his own novels. I never imagined my ideals would mean anything to him.

奥克塔维奥：可他却是这个诗社里第一个支持我的人……
Octavia: But he was the first person in La Sociedad to support me.

奥克塔维奥：但那的的确确是不可逆转的命运……是巴比伦之骰赋予胡利奥先生的命运。
Octavia: But that really was an irreversible fate, a fate granted to Mr. Julio by the Die of Babylon.

德洛丝：巴比伦……之骰？
Dores: The Die ... of Babylon?

无人理会医生的疑问。只有沙龙主持人的发言仍在持续。
Her question is left unanswered. The host of the salon goes on.

理想家：胡利奥已经脱离了无限延伸的楼梯，并且到达了那片寂静的水域。
The Idealist: Julio has stepped off the endless staircase and reached the silent water.

理想家：他已化作了宁静的水，溶解于属于他的那滩水中。让我们为命运的殉道者献上祝福、默哀与送别！
The Idealist: He has become as calm water, dissolved into his own pond. Let us offer our blessings, our silence, our farewell to this martyr of fate.

理想家：——我们应该想象，胡利奥的文学生涯是幸福的。
The Idealist: And let us imagine that Julio's literary career was a happy one.

周围一片死寂，没有掌声，也没有回应。
The hall remains deathly silent. No applause. No response.

奥克塔维奥：你……你就这么不在乎诗社成员的死活吗，理想家？
Octavia: A life was taken, and that's all you have to say? You really don't care whether we live or die, do you, Idealist?

奥克塔维奥：……在场的各位，你们就没有任何想法吗？你们为什么一言不发？
Octavia: And all of you?! Don't any of you have anything to say? Why are you all just standing there?

奥克塔维奥：若不是我们一直抗拒着狱医的治疗，也许胡利奥先生就不会……
Octavia: If we hadn't kept rejecting the Physician's treatment, maybe Mr. Julio wouldn't have …

理想家：抗拒？多么可笑！你根本无法想象那披着人皮的恶魔将如何攫取你的思想，将你的大脑当作它残酷实验的泥胚，肆意捏造、篡改，直至塑成一座囚笼。
The Idealist: Rejecting? How ridiculous! You have no clue what that demon in human skin is capable of—how he'll reach into your mind and mold it like clay, reshaping it until it becomes your prison.

理想家：在虚构、命运、非现实的层面，个体的消逝是必然而不可逆的——我们最不应当抗拒的，恰恰正是巴比伦之骰赋予的归宿！
The Idealist: In the realm of fiction, fate, unreality—the dissolution of the ego is inevitable and irreversible. Therefore, we must not resist the ending dealt to us by the Die of Babylon!

奥克塔维奥：……你真的知道自己在说什么吗？我感觉我从来没有真正理解过你，理想家。
Octavia: Do you even know what you're talking about? I've never truly understood you, Idealist.

奥克塔维奥：我一定要找到更好的办法……我一定要改写这种充满悲剧的故事……！！
Octavia: I will find a better way. I must rewrite this tragic tale!

理想家：如果你不认同我，那就请退出诗社吧。我不希望我们的长诗中充斥着一段像你这样不和韵律的音节。
The Idealist: If you disagree, then leave La Sociedad. I will not have our great poem disrupted by an offbeat syllable.

理想家：何况，你的那套无聊的社会责任论早就该被剔除出去了——现在的拉丁美洲属于本能现实主义，而你却愚昧到对它毫无追求！
The Idealist: Besides, your tedious talk of social responsibility should've been purged long ago. Modern Latin America belongs to visceral realism, and you're too ignorant to even attempt to seek it out!

奥克塔维奥：哈……哈哈！真是可笑！理想家，你什么时候成了诗社的独裁者了？
Octavia: Ha, haha! What a ridiculous, laughable man you are!

奥克塔维奥：噢，不，我想我明白了……
Octavia: Yes, I see it clearly now.

奥克塔维奥：——正是你的独裁，将所有人推向了毁灭的深渊！
Octavia: It's your tyranny that has driven everyone to ruin!

奥克塔维奥：我告诉你——我非但不会退出，还要在科马拉，在美洲诗社中建立一个新的文学派别。
Octavia: Well, let me tell you something. I'm not leaving. I will establish a new literary movement right here in Comala, right here in La Sociedad de Poetas de las Américas.

奥克塔维奥：我……不，我们，会用我们的文学拯救身处苦难中的狱友们。
Octavia: And I—no, we—will use our literature to rescue the inmates who suffer all around us.

奥克塔维奥：至于你，理想家，我再也无法忍受你那狂妄而冷漠的诡辩了！我们之间没有什么可聊的，从此以后，希望我再也不会在科马拉见到你。
Octavia: I've had enough of your condescending, stone-hearted ego and your pompous sophistry!

奥克塔维奥：兀尔德女士，我必须得赶紧带您离开这里……再跟这个满口“本能现实主义”的疯子待在一起，恐怕只会让我们都染上不幸！
Octavia: You only bring misfortune upon us with this constant rambling about that visceral realism! I hope I never see you again. Ms. Urd, we have to get you out of here. Another second around, this maniac might just doom us all!

奥克塔维奥：只有狱医先生——这座监狱的实际管理者，只有他才能改变这种可怕的现状！
Octavia: Only the Physician—the true overseer of this prison—can save us from this situation!

奥克塔维奥：德洛丝女士，请您加入我们的派别吧！让我们共同建筑一个崭新的诗社。
Octavia: Please join the society, Ms. Dores! Help us build a renewed Sociedad de Poetas together!

奥克塔维奥：我已经与狱卒小姐谈过了，只要我们遵守规则，并帮助他们管理科马拉，我们就能自由地讨论文学。
Octavia: I've already spoken with the jailer. As long as we follow the rules and help them manage Comala, we'll be free to discuss literature.

德洛丝：请原谅我不得不拒绝你的好意——我很愿意与你同行，但我需要单独去见一次狱医。
Dores: Forgive me, Ms. Octavia. While I truly appreciate your kind offer, I'm afraid my conversation with the Physician must remain private.

奥克塔维奥：……为什么？
Octavia: Why?

德洛丝：请你先回答我一个问题。在这段时日的印象中，这座监狱似乎是一个环形的建筑，对吗？
Dores: Please answer me this question first. From what you've seen, you'd say this prison is circular in shape, yes?

奥克塔维奥：……是的。
Octavia: Yes, it is.

德洛丝：请你再告诉我，这座建筑的中心是否有一座瞭望塔？
Dores: Then tell me—at the center of this structure, is there a watchtower?

奥克塔维奥：这……这简直不可思议！您猜的很准。而我们的目的地……就在那座瞭望塔之中的某处。但这是为什么？
Octavia: What ... impossible! You guessed it exactly. And our destination is somewhere inside that watchtower. How did you know?

德洛丝：奥克塔维奥小姐，在诗社与大家相处的时光十分愉快而特别，以致于我逐渐忘记了我为何身处此地。
Dores: I've had such a lovely time here, so much so that I almost forgot what I came for.

德洛丝：正因如此，我才必须设法终结这场披着命运外衣的残酷闹剧。
Dores: Which is precisely why I must put an end to this cruel farce masquerading as fate.

奥克塔维奥：……难道您也想像理想家那样，反抗来自瞭望塔的视线吗？
Octavia: Do you intend to rebel against the watchtower's gaze, just like the Idealist?

德洛丝：你误会了我的意思，奥克塔维奥小姐。
Dores: You misunderstand me, Ms. Octavia.

德洛丝：关于那种无迹可寻的视线，关于我的作品主题“命运”……我终归需要见到那位小姐口中所说的管理者，才有可能距离我所追寻的事物更近一步。
Dores: That inescapable gaze and the permanent theme of "fate" ... To get closer to the truth I seek, I have no choice but to meet the administrator that young lady spoke of.

德洛丝：就像你希望靠自己的力量拯救这里的狱友们一样——我想，有些事情需要我去独立完成。或者说，我必须靠自己的力量去完成。
Dores: You've decided to save the people here with your own hands, in your own way, and so have I. There are things I must face alone.

胡利奥的逝去仍然在心中的黑暗处刺痛着这位本该惯于生死的从医者。为此，她说出了不像是自己能够说出的话——她感到有些奇妙。
Though she is well used to death, the pain of Julio's passing still lingers in her heart, causing her to say these words that don't quite feel like herself.

奥克塔维奥：……好，我知道了。请将手伸出来，我会为您指明方向。
Octavia: I see. Lend me your palm; I'll draw you the way to his office.

奥克塔维奥：祝您好运……祝我们都能好运。
Octavia: Good luck to you, and to all of us.

德洛丝：再见，奥克塔维奥小姐，我由衷祝愿你一切顺利。
Dores: Farewell, Ms. Octavia. I truly hope all goes well for you in the days ahead ...

望着逐渐远去的身影，她轻声地补充了一句——
As Octavia retreats, slowly fading into the distance, she quietly adds—

德洛丝：祝愿你也能找到……“命运”的答案。
Dores: ... and in your journey finding answers about "fate," too.
