行于漫漫长路上 - A Long Long Way

目录

- 11TH-01 洪水之后 / After the Flood
- 11TH-02 旧军靴 / Old Boots
- 11TH-03 鹰喙 / Battle of the Birds
- 11TH-04 灰蓝色 / Grayish Blue
- 11TH-05 野菊花 / Chrysanthemum
- 11TH-06 反战宣言 / A Push for Peace
- 11TH-07 人的样貌 / Under the Veil
- 11TH-08 生命的半途 / Death of the Young
- 11TH-09 交汇地 / Paths Crossed
- 11TH-10 不洁之路 / Devil's Work
- 11TH-11 血污与伤痕 / Wounds and Scars
- 11TH-12 破碎的尖拱 / A Fractured Sanctuary
- 11TH-13 和平的价码 / Concessions for Peace
- 11TH-14 两磅糖 / Two Pounds of Sugar
- 11TH-15 回信 / Send-off
- 11TH-16 未完成的布道 / An Unfulfilled Prophecy
- 11TH-17 沉默的风轮 / Serenity on the Wind
- 11TH-18 停火协定 / The Armistice
- 11TH-19 未至的终结 / A False Dawn
- 11TH-20 地狱之门 / Gates of Hell
- 11TH-21 一小时的政治 / 1-Hour Politics
- 11TH-22 硫磺火 / Brimstone and Fire
- 11TH-23 赦免令 / The Pardon
- 11TH-24 山 / The Hill

11TH-01 洪水之后 / After the Flood

生活与想象力有关。
Everyone imagines their future.

我们出生、学习、成长，成为他人的友伴与爱人，铭记令祖辈骄傲的故事。
In most, they grow up, they make friends, get married, and hope to make their fathers and grandfathers proud.

带着这些旧日的一切，我们被抛向一个新的时代。
We entered this new era full of those same hopes for our future. We had no idea what lay in wait for us.

他们说，这是一个“伟大的时代”，是历史赐予一代人的成年礼——
We called it the triumphant opening to the "greatest era in history," a rite of passage for every man-to-be.

结伴而行的冒险，互相鼓励的热忱；载誉而归的欢喜，流传子孙的传奇……
"Join us in an adventure side by side, bound by courage and loyalty! Return home victorious, and let your legend be told for generations to come!"

——这是原本存在于我们想象中的事物。
That was the future we imagined.

可战争撕碎了我们的想象力。
Now those sweet and fitting lies have melted away.

那些年轻的，尚未成长的人，永远见不到本该属于他们的未来。
Barely more than children, we find ourselves bound, not for adventure, but for an open grave of mud and ruin.

而那些有幸存活下来的人，成为了难以想象的东西——
Those of us who were lucky—or unlucky—to survive this battlefield were forged into something new.

麻木。
Numb.

残忍。
Cruel.

堕落。
Corrupted.

……在地狱中求生的魔鬼。
The earth became fire and mud, and all of us devils.

无数次，我自问——我会做出怎样的选择？
What was it that we wanted from this war?

是想被人铭记为英雄，还是……成为一场永恒灾难的牺牲品？
To be remembered, celebrated as heroes, or to forget and be forgotten?

可在我见过太多次毫无价值的死亡之后，我知道——
The answer may seem obvious, but the question itself lies at fault. Because death, meaningless death, came for thousands of us every day, and we knew ...

我没有选择。
We soldiers never had a choice.

？？？：你看见了什么？
???: What do you see?

？？？：还有什么？
???: Anything else?

？？？：时代消失了吗？
???: Is the era gone?

？？？：那么，我们来到了哪一个时代？
???: Well then, what year is it now?

？？？：……
???: ...

？？？：潜意识领域稳定……未检测到侵入性幻觉……认知-现实匹配度良好……
???: Subconscious stable. No sign of invasive illusions. Cognition-reality match rate normal ...

？？？：……苏醒……
???: Our test subject awakens.

小梅斯梅尔：最后一个问题——这是什么？
Mesmer Jr.: Last question. What's this?

维尔汀：大象。
Vertin: An elephant.

提问者在意料之外的耿直面前沉默了一会儿。
Her questioner realizes she should have expected nothing less than a blunt answer.

小梅斯梅尔：答对了，很欣慰你没有给我奇怪的答案。
Mesmer Jr.: Correct. A plain and simple answer like that is an excellent sign.

维尔汀：它有很多头，很多肢体，以怪异的方式生长，如同奇异扭曲的橡树。
Vertin: Something with an abnormal number of heads and limbs, growing larger in a disturbing manner, a bit like a Yateveo.

维尔汀：它是一只奇美拉。
Vertin: Perhaps it's a chimera.

小梅斯梅尔：……我认为是你的视觉出现了重影。
Mesmer Jr.: I believe you're experiencing some double vision.

小梅斯梅尔：但精神应该没有问题。
Mesmer Jr.: But the good news is your mental status is within normal parameters, for you at least.

维尔汀：死亡的阴影，无可辨析的恶魔。
Vertin: The shadow of death, where a devil lurks within.

维尔汀：它像是要撕碎一切理性与光明，未来在它面前黯淡无光。
Vertin: Its claws are so sharp they might tear someone into pieces, shredding all rationality and hope.

小梅斯梅尔：我讨厌你不合时宜的幽默感，维尔汀。
Mesmer Jr.: Not funny, Vertin. What a horrid image.

维尔汀：好的。它是一只大象。
Vertin: Pardon me. Then it must be an elephant.

小梅斯梅尔：……至少你的精神没有问题。
Mesmer Jr.: Bad jokes aside. Your mental status is within tolerances.

维尔汀：这感觉不像过去的人工梦游。
Vertin: This test isn't like the others from the Artificial Somnambulism we used to go through.

小梅斯梅尔：从南极归来的行动人员都要接受特殊的精神检测流程。顺带一说，我并没有参与开发。
Mesmer Jr.: It's a special examination we've prepared for all personnel involved in the Antarctic operation. It wasn't my idea, by the way.

人工梦游治疗师将所有仪器关闭，焦躁的电流嗡鸣声忽然消失不见。
She powers down her equipment, the whirs and hums of its electric current fading with a soft drone.

小梅斯梅尔：按照病情来看，你不应该在我这里待这么久，但我需要按照规范完成诊疗程序。
Mesmer Jr.: I would say, based on your recovery so far, you could have been discharged a week ago, but we had strict orders to complete our entire course of treatment outlined in the Medical Manual.

小梅斯梅尔：无论南极的冰盖下藏着什么东西，它都显然没有对你的神智造成任何损害。
Mesmer Jr.: Whatever it is that hides under the Antarctic, it didn't do any additional harm to your mental health.

小梅斯梅尔：很多人没有这么幸运——他们受到的精神创伤虽然不致命，但也会影响日常生活的便利。
Mesmer Jr.: You're lucky, you know. Many others have suffered irreversible damage that will limit their day-to-day lives.

维尔汀：诺谛卡和“无名者”小姐怎么样了？
Vertin: What about Nautika and Ms. Stranger?

小梅斯梅尔：我无权得知“无名者”的情况，对她的收容和诊疗是其他专门机构的职责。
Mesmer Jr.: I have no access to Ms. Stranger's information. All I know is she's been sent to another department for treatment.

小梅斯梅尔：至于诺谛卡……她很健康。
Mesmer Jr.: As for Nautika ... she's doing great.

小梅斯梅尔用简单的词语下达判断。
Mesmer Jr. offers her judgment in plain terms.

维尔汀：科算中心为她提供了足够的活动空间吗？
Vertin: Where is she now? Does she have enough space to stretch?

小梅斯梅尔：阿德勒先生为她临时腾出了一间阶梯式报告厅，不算舒适，也不会很拥挤。
Mesmer Jr.: Mr. Hoffman cleared out a lecture hall for her. I wouldn't call it a palace, but it's spacious enough to meet her needs.

小梅斯梅尔：不过现在她身边围绕着一大群神秘生物学家、古代传说痴狂者与疯疯癫癫的仪式学家。
Mesmer Jr.: Too bad, though; now she's being cornered in there by every arcane biologist, ancient myth enthusiast, and crazy ritualist we have on staff.

小梅斯梅尔：他们都希望从诺谛卡身上得知有关南极神话的蛛丝马迹。
Mesmer Jr.: I guess they've decided she's an invaluable opportunity to learn more.

小梅斯梅尔：如果你关心她，不需要来问我，你有权直接与诺谛卡接触。
事实上，她一直在询问你的情况。
Mesmer Jr.: You do have access to that hall if you really want to know how she's doing. Just go knock on her door. She's also been asking about you.

治疗师移开视线，就此问题不愿再聊。她开始按照规范收拾病房。
The therapist averts her gaze and shifts away to end the conversation as she begins to tidy the ward.

轻细的叩门声驱散了病房空气中漂浮着的那一丝尴尬。
A soft knock at the door breaks the awkward tension.

十四行诗：司辰？
Sonetto: Timekeeper?

小梅斯梅尔：……
Mesmer Jr.: ...

维尔汀：进来吧，十四行诗。
Vertin: Come on in, Sonetto.

属于第一助手的橘色出现在被灰白色统治的病房内。她首先礼貌地看向另一位昔日同窗。
The splash of orange from her hair is a welcome break from the dull gray and white. Sonetto casts a polite glance toward her old classmate.

十四行诗：小梅斯梅尔，司辰的状况还好吗？
Sonetto: Hi, Mesmer. How's the Timekeeper doing?

小梅斯梅尔：她很好，不需要再待在我这里了。
Mesmer Jr.: She's good to go.

十四行诗：好的，我们很快就离开。
Sonetto: Thank you. Just a minute.

十四行诗回忆起今日的行程。
Sonetto recalls today's agenda.

十四行诗：司辰，Z女士说你之前委托的“暴雨”时代调查已经有了结果。她正在副会长的办公室等你。
Sonetto: Timekeeper, Madam Z said the "Storm" investigation team is back. She's waiting for you in Madam Vice President's office.

维尔汀：我们现在就去。
Vertin: Let's head that way, then.

小梅斯梅尔：那么——再见，二位。
Mesmer Jr.: You two have fun. Take care.

小梅斯梅尔送走客人，留在病房内做最后的收尾工作。
Mesmer Jr. sees the guests out, staying behind to wrap up her final tasks.

刚刚过去的第十次“暴雨”仍在基金会内部传递余震。
The aftershocks of the tenth "Storm" still ripple through the Foundation.

即使已经习惯了时代的更迭，但此时在几何形构筑的走廊内穿梭的职员们仍然显得有些慌乱。
Though they've long grown used to changing times, the staff move through the geometric corridors less like a well-oiled machine and more like a clogging artery.

十四行诗：……看起来大家的情绪仍然相当不安。
Sonetto: There's so much tension in the air now.

维尔汀：这一次的“回溯”与所有人的设想都略有不同。
Vertin: I suppose because this "Storm" was different from the ones we've seen before.

维尔汀：走吧，Z女士应该准备了更准确的消息。
Vertin: I look forward to hearing what Madam Z has to say about it.

基金会委员：……那就不用再浪费时间了。
Foundation Commissioner: I don't intend to waste my time on this anymore.

十四行诗：……？
Sonetto: ...?

一名委员从办公室中疾步走出。相比整洁体面的制服，他的面孔已经变得面目全非。
A Committee member strides out of the office, his face completely distorted, in contrast to his neat uniform.

另一人竭尽所能地克制着步伐，从门后追出来。
Another man rushes behind him, doing his best to keep his pace in check.

佩德拉：伊里内伊，我以为你已经与我们达成了一致。
Pedra: Please, I thought we reached an agreement, Irinei.

然而，他要追逐的对象早已走到道路另一头的分岔路口。
However, the one he's chasing has already reached the fork at the far end of the hall.

伊里内伊：是的，我说过——我同意会议的决策。
Irinei: Naturally, I accept the Committee's decision.

伊里内伊：如果你们觉得在这个时代可以放着重塑之手不管，那么你们就放手去做吧。
Irinei: If you really think we don't have to prioritize the Manus, then be my guest.

佩德拉：恢复这个时代的和平与秩序是当务之急，你应该充分理解——
Pedra: Our top priority is to restore peace and order to this era. You should know that ...

伊里内伊：我们处在一场比你想象得更宏大的战争之中，和平主义者。
Irinei: We're at war, Mr. Pacifist, one far more dangerous than you could possibly conceive.

佩德拉：和平主义者……你在暗示什么？
Pedra: Pacifist ... What do you mean "Pacifist"?

伊里内伊没有作答，他拐向左边的岔路，隐没了身形。
Irinei doesn't respond. He turns down the left path and disappears from view.

佩德拉：……！
Pedra: ...!

“和平主义”委员放弃了追逐，走另一条的岔路离开了。
The "pacifist" Committee member gives up his chase and takes the other path.

十四行诗：……？他们刚刚出来的房间……
Sonetto: Umm. The room they just came out of, is that ...?

维尔汀：没错，是副会长的办公室。
Vertin: It does appear so: the Vice President's office.

维尔汀：客人走了，我们进去吧。
Vertin: Let's go.

十四行诗：……好的。
Sonetto: After you.

办公室的主人不见踪影，只有她的幕僚长在室内等候。
The expected occupant is nowhere to be seen. Only her chief of staff waits inside.

Z：时间正好，司辰，十四行诗。
康复中心告诉我不需要为你们的健康担心，很高兴能亲眼验证这一点。
Z: Very nearly perfect timing, Vertin, Sonetto. I had heard that the Rehab Center cleared you for release, but it's all the more reassuring to see it for myself.

她放下一沓散乱的文件。显然，一场激烈的争吵在此处留下了不少混乱。
The signs of the fierce argument that took place linger in the mess of documents strewn over the table.

维尔汀：Z女士，我在门口遇见了伊里内伊和佩德拉。
Vertin: Madam Z, we saw Irinei and Pedra at the door.

Z：我们暂时不讨论他们的问题。
Z: Let's not talk about them for now.

维尔汀：好的。你说关于“暴雨”时代的调查已经有了结果？
Vertin: Understood. So, the "Storm" investigation team has returned?

Z：没错，根据委外合约小队与各地调查员汇总的情报，我们验证了你的猜想——历史出现了错谬。
Z: Correct. Thanks to the Field Agent Squad and our investigators, we've collected enough proof to verify your hypothesis. History has changed.

Z：……第十次“暴雨”把我们带到了一个错误的1920年，在外部，一场本不应存在的战争正在肆虐。
Z: The tenth "Storm" has brought us to an entirely different 1920 than we knew, one with a war still raging that should have long been over.

维尔汀：能确定错谬发生的原因吗？
Vertin: Do we understand why history has changed?

Z：我得知科算中心对历史错谬发生的诱因有两个推测。
Z: Laplace has two hypotheses.

Z：第一种观点认为，南极的仪式虽然未能完全成功，但它引发的“洪水”仍然导致“暴雨”的性质发生了改变。
Z: The first centers on the ritual held in the Antarctic—despite being interrupted—its "Flood" might have changed the "Storm's" nature ...

Z：在新的“暴雨”之下，时代状况会与真实历史记载产生更大的偏差——这算是较为乐观的推测。
Z: Which has resulted in an even greater deviation from history as we knew it. Don't look so discouraged; that would be much better than the other theory—

Z：比较悲观的推测则认为，阿尔卡纳经过“复活”这一神秘学机制，获得了通过“暴雨”影响历史进程的力量。
Z: After her "revival," Arcana may have obtained the power to use the "Storm" to alter the course of history.

十四行诗：如果真是这样，那我们此刻身处的时代，还有这场战争……
Sonetto: If that is the case, in all likelihood, that means this war ...

康斯坦丁：——很可能就是阿尔卡纳意志之下的产物，重塑之手或许想利用战争带来的混乱。
Constantine: —Is likely a result of intentional manipulation by Arcana. Manus Vindictae is trying to bring more chaos to the world.

庄重肃穆的房间迎来了它的主人。
The solemn room welcomes its master.

康斯坦丁：我们很久没有在这里见过面了，司辰。
Constantine: It's been a long time since we last met in this room, Timekeeper.

维尔汀：嗯，这里一点变化也没有。
Vertin: It seems like nothing has changed.

康斯坦丁：呵呵……恰好你在这里，佩德拉和伊里内伊也不在场，我可以向你补充一些新消息。
Constantine: Heh heh. But there's no time to dwell on that. I have some critical updates for you.

康斯坦丁：外部的战争正处在末期，虽然军事行动仍在继续，但交战国之间已经有了较高的停火意愿。
Constantine: This war may be close to its end. Though the fighting continues, we've begun engaging each side's leaders, and we believe a truce is possible.

康斯坦丁：联合委员会已经决定以调停人的身份介入交战国之间的谈判——维护和平永远是基金会的第一诉求。
Constantine: There will be a peace talk, and the Committee has decided to act as its mediator. Peace is always the Foundation's top priority.

康斯坦丁：另外，稳定的外部局势更有利于我们与重塑之手对抗。
Constantine: After this situation is stabilized, we'll pool our resources and focus on the Manus.

维尔汀：那谈判有进展了吗？
Vertin: I see. How's the progress so far?

对此细节问题，幕僚长代为作答。
The chief of staff answers on her behalf for this minor detail.

Z：各个分部的负责人已经为我们搭建起了沟通渠道，并确定了部分共识性条款。
Z: Our branch leaders have built lines of communication, and we have reached an agreement on some of the terms with their respective governments.

Z：佩德拉将代表基金会抵达前线与各国军事长官会晤，争取在这个月内先达成一份前线停火协定。
Z: Pedra will go to meet the commanders on behalf of the Foundation, with the aim to reach a lasting truce by the end of the month.

Z：如果一切顺利，今年结束前就有望达成最终的和平。
Z: If everything goes well, we may be able to restore peace before the new year.

现在，是时候提出一直萦绕在脑中的疑问。
Now is the time to ask the question that's been lingering in her mind.

维尔汀：我听见伊里内伊把佩德拉说成“和平主义者”，这个词是在针对和平政策？
Vertin: As we arrived, I heard Irinei call Pedra a "Pacifist." Does Irinei disagree with the Foundation's policy regarding the war?

康斯坦丁：……准确来说，是在针对以外交手段维护和平的方式。
Constantine: It isn't a matter of the policy, but the means by which we achieve it, to be precise.

维尔汀：为什么？
Vertin: How do you mean?

康斯坦丁：伊里内伊和他的追随者认为，在以武力手段消灭重塑之手前，维护和平的尝试必然失败。
Constantine: He and a few others believe all attempts to restore peace are bound to fail unless we destroy the Manus first.

康斯坦丁：他们希望基金会立刻进入备战状态。
Constantine: In short, he wants to do things the tough way.

11TH-02 旧军靴 / Old Boots

士兵们费了许多努力，终于将尸体以较为安然的姿态摆放在一块相对干燥的活木板上。
Soldiers lay a corpse on a dry wooden plank, making an effort to place their fallen comrade in something resembling a peaceful pose.

这块用来运送尸体的木板由拆散的弹药箱拼接而成，曾经当过木匠的士兵为它钉上了轮子。
The plank, formed from dismantled ammo crates, has been formed into a makeshift sledge complete with a small set of wheels.

卡戎：……
Charon: ...

战壕中的收尸人宁静地伫立在尸体旁，空洞的呼吸在灰白斗篷之下起伏不止。
The handler stands resolutely by the body at the edge of the trench, his tattered cloak making him look the part of a grim reaper.

他俯下身，掰开死者身上的识别牌，收走了下半部分。
He kneels, prying off the soldier's dog tag, and pockets the bottom half.

弗兰兹·施莱耶。
Franz Schreyer.

威利：能找到的东西都在这里了，卡戎。你能把他带走吗？
Wilhelm: This is all we could find. Can you take care of him, Charon?

卡戎：把他交给我，我会体面地为他安葬。
Charon: Naturally. He will be given a proper burial.

罗尔夫：他真是太倒霉了——我听说这个冬天就要停火了。
Rudolph: I thought they said this war would end before the winter came.

挥之不去的忧郁又从罗尔夫厚重的镜片之下流出来，如同眼泪。
A now familiar gloom seeps out from behind Rudolph's thick glasses, like tears.

弗兰兹躺在木板上，对自己的运气不置可否。
Franz lies still, indifferent to the scene.

埃里希：呵……
Erich: Heh ...

另一个满面愤懑的士兵挤进来，往木板上放了一只没有穿靴子的腿。
Another soldier shoves his way through their small crowd, puffing with frustration, places another leg on the board, completing the set.

接着，他自顾自地把尸体另一条腿上的靴子也脱下来。此刻他手中拎着一双靴子。
Then without a word, he removes the boot from the corpse's other leg—matching it with another.

埃里希：这下凑齐了。
Erich: Now he'll be ready for the march home.

威利：埃里希，你拿走了他的腿？
Wilhelm: You sure that was Franz's leg?

好心肠的威利为此惊骇不已。
The kind-hearted Captain Wilhelm looks at his soldier in horror.

埃里希：这是我自己爬出去找回来的。我认得他的靴子，他答应过，如果他死了，这靴子就归我。
Erich: Better be. I risked my life up there grabbing it. He promised I could have his boots if he got scraped off.

威利：这真是……好吧，我记得是有这么回事。
Wilhelm: My God. I remember when he said that.

他还想再说些什么，但又把话咽了回去。
He starts to say something but swallows it back.

士兵们凑在一起，在战壕的狭窄拐角处围成一个圈。
The soldiers huddle together in the narrow bend of the trench.

卡戎：可是……
Charon: But ...

卡戎有些迟钝地开口，似乎刚才的小争执并没有被他听进耳朵里。
Charon's words come out in a slow drip, seemingly unaware of the conversation around him.

卡戎：……安德烈森在一次攻势中走失了，没有它的帮助，我很难把死者送到常去的墓地。
Charon: Andreas went missing in the last attack. The body will be impossible to move off the frontlines without him.

埃里希：哦，安德烈森——这么说你的小马不见了。它可能死了。
Erich: Eh, your pony? Good bet it's worm food.

威利：埃里希——闭嘴！
Wilhelm: Shut up, Erich!

卡戎：我会试着在更接近防线的地方寻找一片宁静之地，但这会需要一些时间。
Charon: Please, don't worry. There will be somewhere quiet nearby, but it may take a while to find it.

威利：那就这样吧，卡戎。现在天气不像夏天那样炎热，时间不算紧迫。
Wilhelm: Take your time, Charon. The weather's cool these days.

连长威利安抚性地拍了拍这位负责处理尸体的士官。
Wilhelm attempts a pat on Charon's shoulder.

在不远处，营长艾伯哈特·布劳恩少校一直坐在一只空的冷却水桶上。他没有看向这方哀悼的现场，而是盯着面前的战壕胸墙。
Not far away, Major Eberhard Braun, the company commander, sits on an empty water drum. His eyes fixed coldly on the trench wall ahead.

他扔下一颗烟头，站起身。
He drops a cigarette butt and stands.

布劳恩少校：卡戎，过来一下。
Major Braun: Charon, come here.

卡戎：是。
Charon: Yes, sir.

他响应长官的召唤。
He responds to his superior.

布劳恩少校：蒙佩——还记得吗？就是我们身后不远的那个小镇子。
Major Braun: You remember Montpaix? The town near our rear?

卡戎：夏天的时候，那座镇子就是前线，老营长在那场战斗中阵亡了。
Charon: Certainly. We fought there in the warmth of summer. Our Lieutenant Colonel died in that battle.

卡戎：当时你还是连长，在那场战斗中负伤，去了后方休养。
而我用了很长时间才清理完堆积如山的遗骸。
Charon: You were in charge of a company, until you were injured and sent to recover. There were many graves to be dug, but the days were warm and dry.

布劳恩少校：该死的。但我们最终还是把敌人赶了出去，现在他们就缩在我们前面不到两百米的地方。
Major Braun: It was a hard fight to drive our enemy from that town, a damn good one. Even if our lines have only moved a short distance past it since.

卡戎：为什么你会突然提到蒙佩？
Charon: But why this talk of Montpaix all of a sudden?

布劳恩少校：总参谋部决定和基金会就停火展开谈判，会面的地点在蒙佩，希施费尔德上校会作为代表与基金会见面。
Major Braun: Army Command has decided to attend a parley held by the Foundation in Montpaix. Colonel Hirschfelder will be present on behalf of our nation.

布劳恩少校：现在那个镇子成了基金会的地盘，他们把那里叫做“安全区”。
Major Braun: We've handed it over to the Foundation. Pfft, they're calling it a "safe zone."

卡戎：希望停火能在这个冬天之内实现。
Charon: Many hope that peace will come before the winter.

营长未对这个问题做出直接回应。
The major's response is blunt.

布劳恩少校：我们距离胜利只有一步之遥。和平当然会到来，但它只能建立在我军的完全胜利之上。
Major Braun: The only end to this war I can accept is victory—total victory over our enemies.

布劳恩少校：东边的胜利已经让我们从困境中摆脱出来，人员、物资和装备正在向这里汇聚。
Major Braun: They say we've broken through on the eastern front; we only need to push our advantage, and they'll collapse. Once we've freed up all that manpower and material, we'll be able to crush our enemies here too.

卡戎：但这些也不足以支撑我们继续一场庞大的战争，少校，胜利不会带来什么，我们已经失去了一切。
Charon: We may run ourselves dry of ammo and blood before then, sir. No cries of victory are loud enough to wake the dead.

布劳恩少校：你不明白眼下的局势。
Major Braun: Winning here is a part of something far bigger than you could understand.

卡戎：你好像还在发烧——返回前线的路上，你有些过于亢奋，眼神中冒着火。
Charon: Is it? When you returned to the front after your injury, you came with eyes red as a furnace. You wore an old face, a mask of war.

卡戎：这样的神情我只在第一次与你开赴前线时才看到过。四年前，那时我们和三班的同学一起结束了训练营的训练。
Charon: You haven't worn that mask in many years, since before our first taste of battle and blood.

卡戎：……那时我们还不知道战争与死亡的真容。
你需要休息。
Charon: A whole class volunteered. Nothing more than schoolboys, we marched obliviously into the killing field. You should rest.

少校抿起本就纤薄的嘴唇，直到它成为一条刀刻般的细缝。
The major's already-thin lips press together into a sharp, blade-like line.

布劳恩少校：我需要你去一趟蒙佩。
Major Braun: Enough with the poems, soldier. I called you with an order. You must go to Montpaix.

布劳恩少校：穆伦贝格先生寄送了一些私人物品给我们，它们被堆积在安全区，而我没有时间去取。
Major Braun: Mr. Mühlenberge sent us a package, and I need someone to fetch it for me.

布劳恩少校：我想，你也是他的学生，替我取来这个包裹最合适不过。
还有，把你该收拾的那些尸体送走，不要让他们在战壕里腐烂。
Major Braun: I know you'll do your duty for the fatherland, my friend. Take as many bodies with you as you can; we can't leave them rotting in the trenches.

布劳恩少校：没别的了……就这样吧。
Major Braun: Dismissed.

少校转身离去。
The major gets up and moves down the trench.

“蒙佩，一座距离前线不算太远的城镇，四处可见的弹坑仍然在低诉着过往血腥的拉锯战。”
"Montpaix looks like it had been a nice little town before the war. Now, its old streets and laneways are pocked with craters and crumbling buildings—cruel reminders of the brutal battles that raged through it."

“断壁颓垣构成了一座宁静的空壳，只有死者才能在其中寻求安息。”
"Silent screams still echo to me from its laneways, a reminder that a man who has seen war will only find peace when he is dead and buried."

卡戎：……
Charon: ...

这座几乎被战火摧残殆尽的废弃城镇，已经很久没有迎来如此多的车辆和人员。
The town has seen the worst of the war, but with the sudden influx of traffic and activity, it seems to breathe new life.

挤占空间的并非只有军队，还有为数众多的灰白格子在刚刚清理出来的街道中穿梭。
The streets, barely cleared, are swarming with uniforms, some military, and others checkered gray-and-white.

？？？：请问你需要帮助吗，先生？
???: Are you looking for help, sir?

卡戎：……？
Charon: ...?

他缓缓回过头，一名看似医务人员的年轻女人出现在近旁。
His head creaks in the direction of the voice, finding a young woman, likely a medic.

金色的徽章表明了她基金会的身份，不过，更加醒目的是她套在外套之上的盔甲。
Her golden badge marks her as the Foundation's employee, but even more striking is the armor layered over her coat.

玛尔纱：你可以叫我玛尔纱，方便移除面部的遮挡物，让我核验你的身份吗？
Marsha: Hold on, soldier. I'm Nurse Marsha. Please show your face so I can verify your identity.

卡戎：你好，玛尔纱女士。出于某些理由，我无法展示容貌，恳请你接受用其他方式核验我的身份。
Charon: Good day, sister. What lies beneath this mask will not give you the answer you seek. Here, let this serve for identification.

他取出随身携带的记事本，从中取出夹在纸页中的一张证件。
He rummages out a notebook from his coat, retrieving a folded ID card from within.

卡戎：我是艾伯哈特·布劳恩少校的士官，这是我的身份证明。
我代他来取走一个包裹，可是我不知道应该找谁。
Charon: Major Eberhard Braun is waiting on a package from Montpaix. He sends his NCO to collect it. He did not say from whom.

基金会职员接过士官的证件。
She receives it, studying the card.

玛尔纱：这样也行。你的名字是保罗……
Marsha: I see. Your name is Paul ...

卡戎：如果你不介意的话，可以用卡戎称呼我，像其他人那样。至于我的名字……我想它并不真的属于我。
Charon: Charon. That is the name the soldiers use, and the one you should use as well. The name you see there doesn't belong to this war any longer.

玛尔纱：我明白了。
Marsha: I've heard your name before.

她把证明文件交还给士官，随后有些尴尬地捏了捏自己的掌心。
She returns the document, then scans around as she wrings her hands.

玛尔纱：这里确实有很多从后方邮寄来的包裹，应该也有给布劳恩少校的，不过……现在办收件手续可能会费一番周折。
Marsha: You'll find plenty of packages here. Go ahead and look for whichever one belongs to your Major Braun, but there'll be more paperwork to sign before you can leave with it.

玛尔纱：也许得等到希施费尔德上校与基金会的会谈结束之后，他们才能匀出人手处理文书工作。
Marsha: If you're willing to wait, things will get moving again once the parley has finished.

卡戎：没关系，我可以等待。
Charon: Time is a resource the dead have in abundance.

说完，他默然地站在原地。
He looks back at her, his body seeming almost rooted to the spot.

玛尔纱：你——还好吗？
Marsha: Are you certain you're alright, soldier?

卡戎：……我很好。抱歉，我的反应力比以前要差很多了。我正在思考下一个问题。
Charon: The war has taken its toll, but there is nothing you can do to fix these old wounds.

卡戎：请问你是一名战地医生吗？
Charon: You said that you are a medic, Sister Marsha. Is that why you ask?

玛尔纱：算是吧。原本我应该待在医疗站里，但因为实在缺人，所以我就出来帮个忙。
Marsha: Yes, of course. Ordinarily I would be at the clinic, but I was asked to lend a hand here.

卡戎：医疗站里死去的人是如何处理的？
Charon: Where are the dead from your clinic laid to rest?

战地医生面色平静地思忖有关死者的问题。
She reflects on his words.

玛尔纱：现在蒙佩的医疗站还没有死亡的病人，不过这确实是个问题。
Marsha: We don't have any yet, by the grace of God. Though, I don't expect that to remain the case.

玛尔纱：刚过来的时候，我在附近看到过一个可以用作墓地的小坡，如果真的出现无法救治的人……
Marsha: There is a bare slope just outside of town; I noticed it when we first arrived here. It could serve that purpose were someone to die ...

卡戎：这正是我想要的。
Charon: That is good to hear.

玛尔纱：……无法救治的人？
Marsha: That someone might die?

慢一拍的回应导致了一些小误会。
The delayed reply leads to misunderstanding.

卡戎：不，我是说墓地。
Charon: Ah, no. The slope.

卡戎：我正在寻找一片足够安宁与平静的土地，用以安葬在前线死亡的士兵。
Charon: A quiet place is needed. Many of us from the frontlines could find rest there.

玛尔纱：你是为战友收尸的人吗？
Marsha: You mean your brothers in arms?

卡戎：不仅是战友。只不过，作为一名挂靠在营里的士官，我穿着的衣服会限制我的行动。
Charon: All who need burial are my brothers in arms. Though they may have once fought on different sides.

卡戎：如果你愿意与我共享墓地，我可以为你充当守墓人，替基金会埋葬尸体，准备棺材与墓碑。很抱歉，这是我仅能提供的报酬。
Charon: Should there be any in your clinic that need it, they will find rest there too. In a coffin under a marker to remember their place, as is fitting. If you will allow it.

玛尔纱：这样的话……好吧，我可以带你去。
Marsha: So be it. You're offering them more decency than most others would. I'll show you the spot.

蒙佩郊外。
The outskirts of Montpaix.

密林掩藏了大多醒目的痕迹，与此同时，一些细微的动静则会被放大。
Dense woods conceal most obvious traces, yet small sounds are amplified.

士兵？：——什么人？
Soldier?: Who's there?

？？？：你迟到了。
???: You've run late.

士兵？：……这片区域被基金会看得很死，我好不容易才溜进来。
Soldier?: I barely made it. This whole area is under heavy guard.

士兵眯起眼，警惕地打量着眼前身穿灰蓝色制服的军人。
The soldier squints, eyes narrowing at the gray-blue uniformed figure ahead.

士兵？：艾克特去哪儿了？他从来没有说过自己和一个女人一起行动。
你的口令呢？
Soldier?: Where's Hector? He never mentioned you. Give me the countersign.

他举起枪，陌生人的轮廓被他框在照门之内。
He raises his weapon, framing the stranger in his sights.

士兵？：喂，说话！表明身份。
Soldier?: You hear me? Who the hell are you?

面对枪口，受威胁的一方只是流露出一丝厌倦。
Yet his target is unfazed.

？？？：我可以给你两个选择。
???: Two paths lie ahead for you.

士兵？：你在说什么？
Soldier?: W-What are you talking about?

？？？：回答问题，你的长官躲在哪里。或者……
???: In one, you lead me to your commander. In the other ...

她以肃穆到近似祈祷的姿态取下步枪——对方不禁为此呆愣一秒。
She lowers her rifle and bows her head in a motion almost like prayer. It stuns the soldier for a moment.

？？？：——下地狱吧。
???: You are led into perdition.

最后一声枪响在浓密的树林间回荡，最终消失不见。
The final gunshot rings through the thick forest, then fades away.

她蹲下，从倒地敌人身上取下一只地图包。
She crouches, retrieving a pouch from the fallen enemy.

在杂乱的图纸间，她找到了自己需要的纸条。
In the mess of documents and maps, she finds the note she needs.

？？？：基金会，谈判，希施费尔德……
???: Foundation, parley, Hirschfelder ...

阅读完毕，她抬头望向东北方——在林木掩映之外，伫立着蒙佩的废墟。
After reading it, she looks northeast. Beyond the treeline lie the ruins of Montpaix.

？？？：……今天。
???: Today.

11TH-03 鹰喙 / Battle of the Birds

红弩箭：你真不和我一起去吗，头儿？
Lilya: Are you sure you won't come with me, Captain?

在经过了一段长时间的休整之后，飞行女巫已经做好执行新任务的准备。
After a long rest, Lilya readies up for her next mission.

维尔汀：这是索姆将军交给你的任务，不涉及司辰小队。
Z女士要求我留在基金会总部。
Vertin: Admiral Somme assigned this mission to you personally, not the whole team. Besides, Madam Z asked me to stay in the headquarters.

红弩箭：难道你还没有受够这个无聊的地方吗？根据那个《暴雨改革》法案，司辰小队不受基金会的制约。
Lilya: *sigh* Isn't it going to be boring waiting around here? The Storm Reformation directives said Team Timekeeper isn't subject to the Foundation's orders. We can go wherever we want.

十四行诗：但司辰本人仍然需要对Z女士负责，红弩箭小姐。
Sonetto: Yet it also says the Timekeeper is still bound by Madam Z's orders, Lilya.

红弩箭：——这真是有够人受的。
Lilya: Ugh, soooo frustrating.

渴望自由的飞行员闷闷不乐地接受了这个事实。
Reality slams up against her freedom-loving impulses.

红弩箭：我原本以为有机会带你去看看真正的草原，那个场面一定会让你永生难忘。
Lilya: I thought I'd finally be able to show you what things are really like out on the steppe. It's going to be a view to remember.

维尔汀：以后会有机会的。
Vertin: We'll have other chances.

红弩箭：呵，不管是什么时代，那里的景色倒也都没什么区别。
不过你“留在总部”的任务要什么时候才能结束？
Lilya: Yeah. I suppose a view like that doesn't change much no matter what era it is. Anyway, any idea when they're going to set you loose again?

维尔汀：我猜要等到基金会的动荡结束之后，我才有机会独自行动。
Vertin: I think it will have to wait until after the tension clears.

红弩箭：动荡？
Lilya: What are you talking about?

十四行诗：你听过关于“鸽派”与“鹰派”的争端吗？
Sonetto: Haven't you heard about the Doves and the Hawks?

红弩箭：没听过，这段时间我都在休息。
Lilya: We got birds now? Nah. I just got back from vacation.

红弩箭：这听起来又是一些无聊的政治斗争。我已经玩过一次，除非维尔汀再被扣押，否则我绝不想玩第二次。
Lilya: Let me guess, same thing as ever: politics. Go on, just tell me enough so I know who to blast if someone kidnaps Vertin again.

十四行诗：……简单来说，联合委员会在和平战略的问题上分裂成了“鸽派”和“鹰派”。
Sonetto: Simply put, the Committee has split into two factions on the Foundation's course of action: the Doves and the Hawks.

十四行诗：“鸽派”坚持要维护政治原则，以外交方式达成和平，以此在战后的政治秩序中获益。
Sonetto: The Doves insist on seeking peace through diplomacy, hoping to secure advantages in the post-war political landscape.

红弩箭：那“鹰派”呢？
Lilya: Uh-huh, and the Hawks?

十四行诗：“鹰派”相信重塑之手已经渗透了军队高层，外交手段无法实现和平。
Sonetto: They believe that the governments we're dealing with have been infiltrated too deeply by Manus Vindictae, so diplomacy is off the table.

十四行诗：他们想要打破过去处理时代问题的准则，以更直接的手段逮捕涉嫌与重塑之手合作的军政界高层。
Sonetto: They want to take more direct action, by arresting any high-ranking military and political figures suspected of collaborating with the Manus.

红弩箭：这听起来更有效率，不过也许会搞出大乱子。
Lilya: Really? I would have never thought we'd do something like that. Efficient, the kind of plan I like, but also like it could be the mother of all messes.

维尔汀：所以，目前是“鸽派”的政策占据上风。
Vertin: Precisely. That's why the Doves prevailed, at least for now.

红弩箭意兴阑珊地摇摇头。对她来说，政治问题说到这个程度已经够她受了。
Lilya shakes her head. She's had enough of politics for one day.

红弩箭：这太复杂了。头儿，你站哪边？
Lilya: Complicated. So, what side you on, Captain?

维尔汀：我不会站在任何一方。
Vertin: I'm not on any side.

出发的时间已到，飞行女巫跨上Su-01ве。
Departure time. She mounts her Su-01ве.

红弩箭：总之，我站在你这边。
Lilya: No matter then. I am on your side.

红弩箭：再见！
Lilya: See you later!

飞行扫帚呼啸着喷射出强劲的气流，老练的驾驶员很快消失在了云层之中。
With a sharp roar, the flying broom shoots out a blast of air, and soon enough the seasoned pilot vanishes into the clouds.

维尔汀：……
Vertin: ...

康斯坦丁：……战争延长的每一天都会造成大量无谓伤亡，为了尽快做出应对，参与决策的人数应该尽可能少。
Constantine: People are dying out there. We have to reduce the number of decision-makers. We can't afford any delays.

康斯坦丁：在联合委员会开始前，我需要各派的领袖在这间办公室里先行达成一致。
Constantine: I need all the faction leaders to reach an agreement before the Committee meeting starts.

维尔汀：所以你之前召集了佩德拉和伊里内伊。
Vertin: That's why Pedra and Irinei were here.

康斯坦丁：没错，让伊里内伊妥协不是一件容易的事，好在最终还是说服了他。
Constantine: Yes. It was not an easy task to persuade Irinei, but we did it.

维尔汀：我不代表任何派别，没必要留在这里。
为什么不批准我的外勤申请？
Vertin: Good. But I'm not on either side. It seems like there's no need for me to stay. Why are you keeping me around?

康斯坦丁：这是出于其他的理由。
Constantine: I have my reasons, as I'm sure you expect.

康斯坦丁：《暴雨改革》法案无法一劳永逸地保障司辰小队的权利，维尔汀，这场派系争端一定会带来很多新的政策变更。
Constantine: The Storm Reformation Act won't keep you and your team secure forever, Vertin. The final result of this meeting, whatever it is, will change many things.

康斯坦丁：你有机会为你和你麾下的神秘学家争取比初版法案更多的权益与预算。当然，情况也可能完全相反。
Constantine: That may mean more latitude and resources for your team. Then again, it could mean the exact opposite.

康斯坦丁：如果你不想失去这次机会，那就必须留在总部，直到所有事情告一段落。
Constantine: Anyway, if you intend to seize anything from this opportunity, you'll need to stay until the meeting's over.

维尔汀：……我们走吧，十四行诗。
Vertin: Time to go, Sonetto.

？？？：真是令人印象深刻的起飞动作，那位就是红弩箭中尉？
???: Quite the take-off. That must've been Lieutenant Lilya, wasn't it?

维尔汀：……？
Vertin: ...?

转过头去，一名红发男子出现在视野中。
She turns, and a red-haired man enters the frame.

刻雷乌斯：她就是人们说的红弩箭中尉吗，司辰？
Creius: Have I got it right, Timekeeper?

维尔汀：是的。
Vertin: You have.

十四行诗：您是……刻雷乌斯先生，“Ⅻ”小队的队长？
Sonetto: You must be Mr. Creius, the captain of the "XII."

刻雷乌斯：看来我们已经通过某些渠道互相认识了。
Creius: Seems you're already acquainted then.

十四行诗：是的，我读过南极行动的详细报告，其中就有您的名字……
Sonetto: I've read the report on the Antarctic operation; your name was mentioned.

行动队长向第一助手点头致谢，随后，他换上更加审慎的目光。
Creius nods to Sonetto in thanks before adopting a more guarded expression.

刻雷乌斯：在前往南极之前，我也了解过你的事迹，司辰。
Creius: I've been reading up on you. Just a few choice selections from your after-action reports before our Antarctic expedition.

刻雷乌斯：不光是南极，还有之前的几次“暴雨”，你的小队挫败了重塑之手的很多阴谋。
Creius: Seems we have you and your team to thank for thwarting many a wicked scheme hatched by Manus Vindictae in previous "Storms."

刻雷乌斯：可惜，南极行动的结局不算太完美，眼下又有一场战争拦在我们面前……
Creius: Shame we couldn't put a stop to Arcana's revival too. Now look at the dog's breakfast of an era we stepped into ...

“哔——哔——”
"beep—beep—"

一则通讯请求恰好在此刻接入。
A communication request comes through at that exact moment.

刻雷乌斯还想说些什么，但也只好无奈地就此作罢。
Creius is about to speak again but lets it go.

刻雷乌斯：我想，以后我们还会有其他合作的机会——如果你有任何需要的话，司辰，都可以与我联系。
Creius: I do hope we'll have the chance to cooperate more closely in the future. Feel free to call on me if you find yourself in need, Timekeeper.

维尔汀：……好的。我也必须要离开了，刻雷乌斯先生。
Vertin: Thank you, Mr. Creius. I'm afraid further introductions will have to wait; we're called elsewhere.

三人结束了这场短暂的偶遇。
The brief encounter ends.

刻雷乌斯留在原地，摁下了通讯器的接通按钮。
Creius remains where he is, pressing his communicator.

刻雷乌斯：……
Creius: ...

刻雷乌斯：说。
Creius: Speak.

？？？：照你说的，我已经向部分到访安全区的政要警告了重塑之手可能在渗透高层的情况，但他们信不信我不知道。
???: I passed along our intel about Manus Vindictae's possible infiltration of the safe zone; anyone's guess if they're gonna do a damned thing about it.

？？？：另外，玛尔纱和一个引人注目的士官离开了蒙佩。
???: And Marsha was seen leaving the safe zone with an odd-looking German soldier.

刻雷乌斯：什么理由？
Creius: Any idea where she's heading?

？？？：我可不会凑上去听——毕竟，我不想在不该出现的时候露脸。
???: I kept my distance. Didn't wanna risk exposure.

刻雷乌斯：说说你的判断。
Creius: Should I have any concerns about it?

？？？：那个士官的外貌很怪异，但从行为上看不太像是重塑之手的人。
???: Whatever he is, I don't get the impression he's with the Manus.

？？？：他和玛尔纱只是偶然相见，就站在路中间说话。
???: He came up from the lines, started a conversation, and just like that, they started walking away.

？？？：说实在的，你从南极回来之后多少有些神经过敏了，觉得到处都有重塑之手。
???: You're jumping at shadows, Creius. Ever since Antarctica, it seems like you've been imagining phantom oil stains on everyone we meet.

讽刺的言辞落了个空，通讯另一头的人等来的是一条明确的指令。
He leaves the remarks unanswered. On the other end is a clear directive.

刻雷乌斯：跟上玛尔纱。
Creius: All the same, keep an eye on her.

？？？：蒙佩这边不需要我盯着了吗？你之前还说，怀疑有重塑之手的人混入了会场……
???: And take my eyes off the town? What about searching for those infiltrators?

刻雷乌斯：那里有基金会的安保人员。
Creius: The Foundation has enough security on-site to keep things in check.

？？？：希望那些石头脑袋能顶用吧……梅蕾尔和帕拉维扬都已经调到总部了？
???: Yeah, right, let's just hope those hay-for-brains can do their job. Haven't Merel and Paravyan been transferred to HQ?

刻雷乌斯：……对。不过他们要和我一起行动，只是委员会还没通过我的外勤申请。
Creius: I hope you weren't expecting a hand. I need them for my field mission as soon as our application is approved.

？？？：呵——基金会还是信不过你？
???: Hah, still waiting for that—they haven't learned to trust you yet?

刻雷乌斯：完成你的任务，叶尔莫莱。
Creius: Focus on your mission, Yermolai.

“士兵们通常没有机会一观战壕的全貌，而我常常将它想象成一种爪痕。”
"Not many of us have any real idea what it's like to view the trenches from above. But in my haunted dreams and flashes of imagination, I picture them as claw marks."

“有关爪痕的印象在心中挥之不去——庞大而黑暗的怪兽撕开土地，我们则躲藏在它创造的沟壑中瑟瑟发抖。”
"I keep returning to that thought over and over again: the image of some terrible monster ripping the earth apart with its claws, then we hide, trembling like maggots in the wounds it leaves behind."

玛尔纱：我们到了。
Marsha: Here.

卡戎驻足凝视着这片布满壕沟的坡地，时间还不足以消弭此地的伤疤。
Charon stops, staring out over the woods, only just beginning to advance on a slope that bears the scars of trench work and artillery.

卡戎：总的来说，这是个安静的地方……也许战壕中还有不少没有被清理的尸体。
Charon: It is quiet enough, but the dead may come to outnumber the empty lodgings below.

玛尔纱：唯一的问题是，这里离蒙佩有一些距离了。
Marsha: I wouldn't have thought the dead mind having neighbors. The real trouble is how far it is from the clinic.

收尸人的目光在丘陵与玛尔纱之间来回移动，最终锁定在后者身上的盔甲。
He lets his gaze drift from the hills to Marsha, settling on her armor.

卡戎：我有一个问题想要问你。
Charon: There is something about you—a contradiction lying under cloth and steel.

玛尔纱：没错，我之前的确在军队中服役。
Marsha: I know what you want to ask. Yes, I was a knight once.

她早已知道问题，干脆抢先一步做出回答。
She preempts the question, one she's learned to expect.

卡戎：……
Charon: ...

玛尔纱：我过去是骑士团的成员，和其他神秘学家一样，开战之后就作为特殊部队被投入战场。
Marsha: Like other arcanists, I was enlisted in a special unit and sent to the front as soon as the war started.

玛尔纱：出于某些原因，我现在是一名战地医生……但我还是习惯把一部分旧时的盔甲穿在身上。
Marsha: This armor is only a habit. I'm a medic now.

玛尔纱：它虽然无法挡住步枪弹，也没有承载太好的回忆，但我希望以此纪念那些永远不会再见的战友。
Marsha: It's not much for protection; modern bullets go through steel this thin like paper. But I want to remember.

卡戎：军队严禁士兵擅自退出服役，你是怎么转而为基金会服务的？
Charon: Only in death does duty end. Yet, you live again with the Foundation.

玛尔纱：……
Marsha: ...

玛尔纱：我现在不想回答这个问题。
Marsha: Another of your questions? This time I won't give you an answer.

士官如同一名笨拙的士兵，狼狈地跌进了泥坑里。
He stumbles at her retort, like a clumsy soldier stuck in mud.

卡戎：是我有失考量，但是……至少请你相信，我没有在追究你。
Charon: There was no ill intent. The ways of this war do not fall upon your shoulders.

卡戎：如果我能摆脱当前的命运，我也会永远离开军队。
Charon: Our path is not chosen, nor can it be escaped. The end to our war is found in the grave.

玛尔纱：我明白。
Marsha: I know.

玛尔纱：也许等和约签订之后，你就能得偿所愿，很快军队就不需要那么多军人了。
Marsha: Death shouldn't be the only way a soldier like you can find peace.

骑士回望来路——通向蒙佩的道路被一座茂密的森林隔断。
Marsha glances back. The view of Montpaix is blocked by a dense forest.

玛尔纱：我该回去了，再见，卡戎。
Marsha: I'm needed back at the clinic.

卡戎：……再见。
Charon: And there is work to be done here.

卡戎：再次向你表达我的歉意，女士。
Charon: Please hear this apology. You have chosen a noble path.

安全区内，第一轮会谈已经结束。
Inside the safe zone, the first round of talks has concluded.

希施费尔德上校从悬挂着基金会旗帜的房屋走出，在他身后，军官们紧密地围成一道屏风。
Colonel Hirschfelder exits the building draped in Foundation banners. Adjutant officers flank him tightly, like remoras swimming beside a shark.

上校：……该走了。
Colonel: This meeting is over.

上校的勤务兵为他披上外套。军方代表的心情不算太好，他急于结束这场会谈的意向相当明显。
His aide drapes a coat over his shoulders. The colonel's mood is sour. His eagerness to end the talks is obvious.

佩德拉委员以次要位置伴随在希施费尔德上校身旁，不失风度。
Commissioner Pedra follows at a respectful distance, maintaining proper decorum.

佩德拉：……这是一个对所有人都有利的方案，我恳请您和总参谋部认真考虑，上校先生。
Pedra: Our proposal really is in everyone's best interest. Please give it a bit more thought, Colonel.

上校：我军目前在战争总体局势上占据着优势，如果要签订停火协定，这一点必须得到承认。
Colonel: Our best interest, yes? You have failed to convince me. All I see is the insistence that we pretend this war is not going in our favor.

上校：另外，关于重塑之手的讨论，我希望基金会在未来能谨慎措辞。
Colonel: And I will have no more of these ridiculous conspiracies concerning Manus Vindictae.

上校：我们的战略与你们所谓的邪教团体毫无关联，军方的抉择符合目前对整体局势的理性考量。
Colonel: Our war and our victory have nothing to do with this terrorist organization—or cult, as it may be. The decisions of His Imperial Majesty's government will only align with a rational assessment of the facts at hand.

佩德拉：基金会充分理解这个问题。
Pedra: We fully understand your concerns.

上校：那就再好不过。
Colonel: Words without action.

佩德拉：至少，多方之间可以先达成初步停火协定——士兵仍然可以驻扎在前线，但这个冬天不必再进行大规模军事行动。
Pedra: Would you at least consider a temporary truce? Keep your forces at the front, but halt all active military operations?

军方代表坐上已经在路边停留等候的车辆。
The military delegates enter the car idling roadside.

上校：这取决于对方是否会表达出足够的善意。我认为，首先必须停止的是对我方军事人员的刺杀行动。
Colonel: There are two sides to every truce, Mr. Negotiator. Our enemy has yet to show any hint of sincerity.

佩德拉：刺杀？
Pedra: You're referring to the assassinations?

上校：敌人一直在派遣狙击手，渗透到我军后方，刺杀高级——
Colonel: Do these bastards have any honor? Sending their snipers after our high-ranking ...

一个凝固的瞬间。
Time freezes.

首先是自上校的脖颈处绽裂的鲜血，在几声沉闷的心跳之后，在场的人才听见遥远的枪声。
A bloom of crimson explodes out from the colonel's neck. Staccato heartbeats thump in a rising crescendo to meet the distant booming crack of a rifle.

佩德拉：……！
Pedra: ...!

佩德拉：……什——怎么——
Pedra: What the ...

静滞的时间缓缓化开，一切开始恢复活力——高声呼叫、奋力奔跑、枪械开火……
Time melts back into motion. Shouts erupt, feet thunder, weapons fire off at shadows ...

佩德拉感到有人在揪他的衣领，这股牵扯的力量越来越强。
Pedra feels someone yanking at his collar, the pull growing stronger.

基金会安保：请躲入掩体，佩德拉委员！
Foundation Security Staff: Take cover, Mr. Pedra!

佩德拉：唔——
Pedra: Ugh ...

士兵们则扑向自己的长官。
Soldiers dive toward their fallen officer.

警卫士兵：狙击手，敌袭！
Security Guard: Sniper!

混乱的嘈杂最终淹没了一切。
Chaos drowns out all else.

警卫士兵：医生——上校中弹了，医生在哪里？！
Security Guard: Medic! The colonel has been hit! We need a medic!

警卫士兵：把车开走，带上校去抢救，快！
Security Guard: Move! Get the colonel to the clinic!

11TH-04 灰蓝色 / Grayish Blue

告别了收尸人的骑士，仍在赶往基金会安全区的路上。
Having parted ways with the curious gravedigger, the knight continues back to the Foundation's safe zone.

枝叶交织出的阴影中偶然会传出一些令人警惕的“沙沙”声，但最终证明只是一些胆怯的动物在制造噪音。
Tangled branches rustle, sharpening her mind into alarm. But as her hand twitches to her sidearm, a small and timid creature hops out.

玛尔纱：……只是一只兔子。
Marsha: *sigh* Just a hare.

玛尔纱：真好，现在这里已经有了兔子。
Marsha: Good to know they've returned.

或许有一日，蒙佩的居民会返回家乡，被遗弃的荒地会被重新开垦。
It feels in some way hopeful. If the hares can return, perhaps too people, flowers, life.

“砰……”
*bang*

她听见绝不可能认错的枪声。
The sound is unmistakable, and yet she questions herself.

玛尔纱：有人开枪？
Marsha: Was that a gunshot?

她迅速警惕起来，低下身子，集中注意力分辨周身的每一处动静。
She drops low, seeking its source—scanning—placing the sound.

玛尔纱：……是安全区的方向。
Marsha: From the safe zone.

久经沙场的感官在尽可能地分辨每一处细节。
Battle-honed senses strain to pick out the smallest detail.

“哔——”
*beep—beep—*

玛尔纱：……！
Marsha: ...!

……以至于通讯器的提示音让她吓了一跳。
The abrupt alert tone startles her upright and out of cover.

玛尔纱：没有呼叫人的信息……但这个设备只有基金会的人能打进来。
Marsha: No ID, but it has to have come from someone in the Foundation.

她按下接通键。
She hits the connect button.

？？？：——玛尔纱，没错吧？
???: Marsha, right?

玛尔纱：你是谁？
Marsha: Who are you?

？？？：紧急情况，现在没时间玩推理。
???: No time to explain. Just listen.

？？？：第一，蒙佩发生了一起刺杀事件，希施费尔德上校在自己的汽车里被一颗步枪弹打穿了脖子。当场死亡。
???: Colonel Hirschfelder was just assassinated getting into his car right after the parley. The shot went clean through his neck, severed the carotid artery.

玛尔纱：——希施费尔德上校死了？
Marsha: The colonel's dead?

？？？：第二件事，从弹道的轨迹来判断，刺杀上校的狙击手很可能就躲藏在你身处的树林中。
???: Yeah, but the important thing is that the shot came from the forest, somewhere near your location.

玛尔纱：你……你知道我在哪儿？
Marsha: How do you know where I am?

？？？：——注意隐蔽。确保安全之后，我会提醒你。
???: Just take cover. I'll call again when it's safe.

玛尔纱：你到底是——？
Marsha: Who on earth are ...

通讯已经切断，玛尔纱只好把设备调整为静音模式，呆呆地收回去。
The call is cut. Marsha switches the device to silent and tucks it away, stunned.

玛尔纱：谈判代表被刺杀了，这样的话，谈判会……
Marsha: With the colonel dead, there isn't much hope for the peace talks.

她重复着刚刚听见的消息，嘴里有些干涩。
She repeats the message under her breath, her mouth dry.

玛尔纱：不是想这种事的时候。如果狙击手还在这片森林里……
Marsha: Can't worry about that now. The sniper may still be here.

曾经的骑士很快从突发事件带来的震撼中恢复过来——骑士团的训练让她明白如何掌控情绪与激素分泌水平。
She siphons the shock into willpower. The Order's training has taught her how to manipulate her emotions, controlling them right down to the flow of hormones.

同样，这种训练也让她不习惯坐以待毙。
They've also taught her not to sit and wait for death.

玛尔纱：身上只有一把手枪，但距离够近的话，应该没有太大的劣势。
Marsha: All I have is this pistol. Still, a bullet is a bullet. I'll just need to get close.

她拿出武器，在可供隐蔽的粗大树干与浓密灌木中不断穿梭，一步步向蒙佩的方向接近。
Retrieving her weapon, she weaves tactically between thick tree trunks and dense shrubs that offer concealment, inching her way back to Montpaix.

视线穿过无数枝条构成的缝隙，骑士捕捉到了一个清晰可见的人影。
Between the brambles and foliage, she spies armed figures in the distance.

玛尔纱：——有人。
Marsha: Over there.

？？？：……什么人？
???: Who's there?

显然，对方恰好也发现了自己。
Evidently, she has been spotted too.

玛尔纱：——！
Marsha: ...!

她本能地向下趴卧，一颗子弹在金属甲胄上留下了一道数寸长的弹痕。
On instinct, she slumps downward, and a bullet scrapes a long gash across her metal armor.

玛尔纱：手枪弹……
Marsha: Small caliber.

玛尔纱：五个人，两把冲锋枪，制服……无法分辨。
Marsha: Five of them, two with machine pistols. Their uniforms, unclear in origin.

？？？：出来！
???: Come out!

又是一连串射击，飞溅的木屑在她的皮肤上切出一道道血珠。
A flurry of follow-up shots shreds bark and skin, painting her armor with splashes of blood.

玛尔纱：——！
Marsha: ...!

她深吸一口气，将心跳调整到大约每分钟90次。
But she leans on her training, slowing her heartbeat to limit her bleeding and maintain focus.

玛尔纱：至少得留一个活的。再近一点——
Marsha: Need to leave one alive. Now, to get a little closer ...

袭击者纷纷倒下，玛尔纱小心翼翼地探出头查看，却无法分辨他们的军籍。
Her ambushers fall one by one. Marsha peeks out from cover, unable to identify their uniforms.

玛尔纱：这身衣服……看起来不像任何制式军装。也许是重塑之手的人？
Marsha: Black uniforms ... Can't tell who they might be. Perhaps the Manus?

玛尔纱：他们是被其他方向的射手击杀的……
Marsha: Never mind. Who is it that helped me? Could you—

正在思索间，几片干枯的叶片落在玛尔纱头顶。
While Marsha is pondering this, a few dry leaves land on top of her head.

？？？：抬头。
???: Cast your eyes up.

玛尔纱：嗯？
Marsha: Huh?

抬头，望向高处——陌生的身形隐藏在巨大的雨披中。
She looks up to behold a cloaked figure hidden among the branches.

玛尔纱：——！
Marsha: ...!

醒目的步枪构成轮廓上一根颇为扎眼的尖刺，不得不让玛尔纱想起杀死了希施费尔德上校的步枪子弹。
Her rescuer bears a rifle, heavy caliber, scoped, with distinct markings—the weapon of a sniper.

纵使心中已经有了危险的推断，但玛尔纱仍然在试探性地发问。
A dangerous inference is drawn in her mind. Yet Marsha begins tentatively.

玛尔纱：你是谁？刚刚那些人是你杀的吗？——你知不知道他们是谁？
Marsha: Was it you who shot these men? Do you know who they are?

她的提问仿佛力量不足的小石子，没有抛到陌生人所处的高处。
She feels as if the questions are only pebbles lobbed too lightly to reach the perched stranger.

玛尔纱：为什么你只是……这么看着？你难道不是有什么话想和我说吗？毕竟，你不必让我发现你的。
Marsha: You must have something more to say. Why bother showing yourself otherwise?

？？？：……基金会在做什么？
???: Tell me, what is it that the Foundation concerns itself with here?

玛尔纱：这不是一个秘密，基金会正在蒙佩组织停火谈判，可是……谈判代表遭到了刺杀。
Marsha: That's no secret. We're working on a parley to end this war, but one of the representatives has just been assassinated.

玛尔纱：这也许和刚才那些穿黑色衣服的人有关。
Marsha: These soldiers dressed in black could be our culprits.

？？？：不，他们是来保护希施费尔德的。
???: No. They were sent forth to protect Hirschfelder. Though they tarried too late.

玛尔纱：保护？——你知道希施费尔德？那……又是谁杀了他？
Marsha: Wait, you know Hirschfelder? Do you have any idea who shot him?

？？？：我。
???: I did.

玛尔纱：你——咳咳！果然是——咳——
Marsha: You! *cough* You ...

刺激性的浓烟几乎让她无法睁眼。
Acrid smoke stings her eyes, blinding her vision.

玛尔纱：为什——为什么——呃。
Marsha: Why ... *cough*

玛尔纱：咳咳——咳——
Marsha: *cough*

总参谋部：重塑之手……不，元帅不接受这样的解释。
Army Commander: Manus Vindictae? No. The Field Marshal will not entertain such a thing.

总参谋部：我们倾向于认为，这个团体只是你们为了实现某些目的而杜撰的假想敌。
Army Commander: You've simply conjured up some invisible enemy to achieve your goals.

总参谋部：至于这次的刺杀事件，完全是敌国的刻意羞辱，他们想借此让我们的军队陷入恐慌。
Army Commander: We can conclude only this: that our enemy agreeing to this parley was only a ruse and that the assassination of our colonel was meant to sow fear in our ranks.

总参谋部：但我们不会因此屈服。他们放弃了谈判的机会，就必须要为此付出代价。
Army Commander: We will not yield to such a contemptible tactic. They have chosen war, and we will answer in kind.

通讯被粗暴地切断，没有留下任何商量的余地。
The line is cut abruptly, leaving no room for negotiation.

混杂着茫然的紧张情绪在室内不断蔓延。
Confusion and tension ripple through the office, simmering like a pot ready to boil.

……
...

Z：蒙佩的刺杀事件发生之后，其他国家也中止了停火谈判进程。
Z: The assassination in Montpaix has been a serious blow to our global efforts. Many nations have withdrawn from our peace talks in response.

康斯坦丁：刺杀事件中，基金会方有没有人员损失？
Constantine: Did we lose anyone?

Z：没有。刺杀上校的狙击手似乎有很强的针对性。根据在现场的调查员报告，他们只听见了一声枪响。
Z: No. Our investigators on the scene confirmed they heard just a single gunshot at the time.

Z：还有一个外勤人员声称，自己目击了狙击手本人。
Z: We do have a confirmed sighting of the shooter.

康斯坦丁：目击狙击手的基金会人员没有遭到攻击，那对方的身份应该也不是重塑之手。
Constantine: Yes. I heard. Yet they didn't fire on her, which means our shooter isn't likely to be with the Manus.

幕僚长点头认同，随之将此事诱发的内部问题摆上台前。
The chief of staff nods in agreement, then lays out the situation at hand.

Z：“鹰派”对此事反应非常强烈，他们重提了让基金会进入备战状态的诉求。
Z: The Hawks have reacted strongly to this incident; they're calling for the Foundation to enter a state of war readiness again.

Z：伊里内伊在最近一次委员会会议上的说辞十分有煽动性，很多中间派也开始动摇。
Z: Irinei gave quite the speech at our last meeting. It's clear the moderates are wavering over to his side.

康斯坦丁：……
Constantine: ...

副会长将一颗棋子放在桌面，推倒，看着它以弧形的轨迹滚动。
The Vice President sets a chess piece on the desk and flicks it. It rolls in a slow arc.

康斯坦丁：平衡仍在维持，现在还没有走到不顾后果的那一步。
Constantine: True, but there are still things we can do to maintain the balance. We must consider violence our last resort.

康斯坦丁：派遣一支特别行动小队到蒙佩去，把这件事给查清楚。
Constantine: Send a special unit to Montpaix. I need to figure out what really happened.

Z：“剃刀”小队目前在东线执行其他任务，无法及时转移到西线。
Z: "Razor" is on a mission at the eastern front; they won't be back in contact for several days.

Z：正在待命中的还有“暗喻”小队，“征兆”小队，“密涅瓦”小队……但他们都不适合执行战区调查任务。
Z: There are three squads presently available for deployment: codenames "Metaphor," "Omen," and "Minerva." But I don't believe any of them are suitable for this mission.

Z：不过，还有最近新组建的“Ⅻ”小队……
Z: We're left with only one option: the newly founded "XII."

康斯坦丁：刻雷乌斯的队伍……如果这件事能完成，他在基金会的履历能添上一条相当有价值的记录。
Constantine: That's Creius's team. I'm sure he'd be eager to buff up his resume with this mission; he's eager to prove himself.

Z：“Ⅻ”小队成员都是刻雷乌斯在夜巡特遣时期的老部下，他们与这项任务有较好的适配性。
Z: All the members of the "XII" used to work for Creius at the Vigiles Bureau. Their experience could be useful for this mission.

Z：他们过去侦破过一系列神秘学犯罪事件，其中多起案件都有重塑之手的参与。
Z: Many of the arcane crime cases they cracked involved the Manus.

康斯坦丁：我听说他最近和“鹰派”的成员走得很近，甚至与伊里内伊有过多次交谈。
Constantine: I understand he's been seen in the company of several prominent Hawks. He even spoke with Irinei several times.

Z：你认为他的政治立场不适合代表基金会接受这项任务？
Z: Are you suggesting his policy leanings could pose a problem?

康斯坦丁：不，正因如此，刻雷乌斯才是一个更好的选择，让他出任前线调查的负责人能安抚“鹰派”的情绪。
Constantine: On the contrary, he'll make a fine choice precisely because his appearance at the front line will calm the Hawks' nerves.

Z：我明白了。
Z: Understood.

康斯坦丁：告诉刻雷乌斯，他和他的小队有2个小时的准备时间。
Constantine: Tell Creius he and his team will set off in two hours.

11TH-05 野菊花 / Chrysanthemum

“战争进行的每一月，每一天，每一小时……我们都在幻想，长官突然向我们宣布：战争结束了。”
"Since the first grenade exploded in our trench, we've been dreaming of the moment when the guns fall silent and our commander calls out 'The war is over.'"

“元帅们会在宫殿里与皇帝杯盏相碰，军官们胸前会别上闪亮的勋章……而我们，终于可以回家了。”
"The marshals will attend the victory banquet in His Majesty's palace, the officers will pin shiny medals on their chests, and we will get to go home."

布劳恩少校：让开——让路，不要堵住过道。
Major Braun: Out of my way, soldiers! I said make way!

威严的号令在蜿蜒曲折的战壕中传递，老兵们神色漠然地斜靠在壁上。
His call to arms is passed through the winding trenches, passing over veterans slumped against the walls with indifference.

埃里希：搞什么？
Erich: What's wrong?

营长布劳恩少校在一处拐角现身，紧随其后的是一长串低着头的新兵队列。
Major Braun, the battalion commander, storms around a corner, followed by a long line of recruits with heads bowed.

布劳恩少校：2连？威利？
Major Braun: Wilhelm, 2nd Company.

威利：在，长官。
Wilhelm: Yes, Major.

2连长勉力挺直了身体。
Wilhelm straightens up, meeting the eyes of his commander.

布劳恩少校指了指身后的新兵队列——其中有不少东欧面孔。
Major Braun points to the line of recruits behind him, their faces blank and strangely foreign.

布劳恩少校：这些小伙子归你了，他们会补到你的连里。另外你得给我从里面挑出几个能当突击队的人。
Major Braun: You'll be in charge of these runts from now on, and I'll need you to choose the pick of this litter to join the stormtroopers.

威利：……是，少校。
Wilhelm: Yes, Major.

少校拍了拍胖威利的肩膀，随后一只脚踩在射击台上。
The major claps Wilhelm on his shoulder and boldly steps up to a firing position.

他清了清嗓子。
He clears his throat.

布劳恩少校：士兵们，我不得不向你们通告一件悲剧性的事件，它就发生在半小时之前。
Major Braun: Soldiers, I have some bad news.

布劳恩少校：在中立的谈判现场，敌人的狙击手杀害了我方的谈判代表希施费尔德上校。
Major Braun: Half an hour ago in Montpaix, at the site of this so-called parley, our representative, Colonel Hirschfelder, was assassinated by a French sniper.

罗尔夫：什……什么？
Rudolph: Wh-What?

一顶顶钢盔不安地转动着。
Helmets swivel, voices turn from sharp whispers to despair.

埃里希：他妈的！他在说什么胡话？敌人怎么可能跑到战线后面去？
Erich: Nonsense! What the devil is he talking about?! How could a sniper have made it so far behind our lines!

威利：嘘——
Wilhelm: Shh!

营长没有理会身下的骚动。
The major stands above the murmurs.

布劳恩少校：那些懦弱与卑劣的人想用这种方式来散播恐惧。
Major Braun: Soldiers! We can't let our enemies sow fear within our ranks!

布劳恩少校：可他们没有想到，这种行径反而会增强我们同仇敌忾的决心。很快，他们就将尝到可耻行为的后果！
Major Braun: Let their desperate attack bring us together and give us the strength to destroy them once and for all! They will pay in blood for what they've done!

议论、疑惑与愤懑不解的声音在壕沟内杂糅出一阵不祥的嗡鸣。
The mingling of voices churns into an ominous hum within the trench.

埃里希：见鬼了，不是说要停火了吗？
Erich: What the hell! I thought this was finally going to end.

罗尔夫：说实在的，我不在乎……这一切，我都不在乎。
Rudolph: I can't. I can't even force myself to care.

布劳恩少校：……他们憎恨我们，想将我们的祖国彻底毁灭，而我们的仇恨只会比他们更多——回答我！
Major Braun: With hate and rage, they scheme to destroy our fatherland! But we march against them with the strength and cunning of wolves! Will you stand with me, soldiers? Will you stand for the Kaiser and for victory?!

士兵们：是，少校！
Soldiers: Yes, Major!

布劳恩少校：很好。
Major Braun: Very good!

布劳恩少校：这是我需要的回答，这是所有好汉该做出的回答——我知道你们都是这样的好汉。
Major Braun: You've shown me your steel, soldiers! You are the pride of the fatherland!

布劳恩少校：胜利必将属于我们，保持这样的信念——现在，回到你们的位置上去！
Major Braun: Victory lies ahead, ready for the taking! Now, take up your rifle and get back to your positions!

少校的即兴演讲结束，他离开了射击台，带着剩下的士兵向另一个连队的驻地走去。
With his impromptu speech over, he drops down from the firing platform and leads a further cadre down the line.

一些新兵留在了原地，他们中的不少人都携带着沉重的包裹。
Second Company's new recruits tote bags so heavy they look liable to sink into the mud.

2连的老兵们慢慢围了上来。
The company's vets close in to offer relief.

埃里希：嘿，老弟，你们手里拎着的是什么？——牛排吗？
Erich: Hey, boy, what's that you're holding? You got a fresh tin? Verbena? Sausages?

新兵们对提问充耳不闻。
Their questions slide off the recruits, slipping down through the cracks of the boards at their feet.

少数人从钢盔的阴影下抬起头，瞪着怪异的圆眼睛，与衣衫褴褛的老兵对视。
Some glance up from under oversized helmets, wide eyes locking with the tattered vets.

埃里希：嚯！妈的，你看见他们的眼神了吗？他们好像在挑衅我们。
Erich: God! Did you see the way they looked at us? It was like there was nothing behind their eyes.

罗尔夫：……埃里希，他们……可能听不懂我们说的话。
Rudolph: Erich, did you notice ... I don't think they understood a word you said.

埃里希：嘁！——该死的可怜鬼。
Erich: Shameful.

埃里希猛一甩手，摇着头离去。
Erich throws a hand in the air, shaking his head as he walks off.

热心的威利有身为连长的义务，他宽慰般地拍了拍新兵的头盔。
But Wilhelm musters up his sense of obligation as company commander, patting a recruit's helmet enthusiastically.

威利：来吧，好小子，跟我来，我先带你们把东西放下。
Wilhelm: Come on, boys, follow me. I'll show you to your dugout.

威利：注意脚下，别被木板的缝隙绊倒。
Wilhelm: Mind the gaps on the duckboards.

罗尔夫：威利，我想你该教他们如何分辨炮弹的声音，就像我第一次来的时候那样。
Rudolph: Wil—er, Mr. Hauptmann, perhaps first we should drill them on keeping their heads down and avoiding artillery. Remember how many comrades we lost in our first days?

威利：这种事……总会有机会的，现在——
Wilhelm: Not now. First we need to ...

罗尔夫：——！
Rudolph: ...!

威利：——寻找掩体！
Wilhelm: Take cover!

威利：快！快躲进去——别愣着！
Wilhelm: Get in there! Move!

又一具尸体得到埋葬。铁锹插入泥土。
Another body slumps to the ground. A shovel bites into the earth beside it.

炮火落在地平线上，仿佛有一只怪兽在沿着地平线一路狂奔。
The sound of artillery rumbles through the woods like a distant storm.

卡戎：……这片土地还无法得到安宁。
Charon: It seems peace lies beyond our grasp.

他俯身，轻轻刨开泥土，试着完整地取出一只腐烂一半的断臂。
He crouches and brushes aside some caked mud from a half-rotten arm.

收尸人未能注意到从山坡下开始，逐渐接近的脚步声。
He doesn't notice, or pays no heed to, the soft scrape of metal ascending up the hill.

玛尔纱：卡戎？
Marsha: Charon?

卡戎的动作逐渐凝滞，直到陷入静止。随后，他站起身。
His hands go still. Then he rises.

卡戎：……
Charon: ...

他看向来者，未发一语。
He lingers wordlessly on the face that greets him.

玛尔纱：——你忘记我了吗？
Marsha: You don't remember who I am?

卡戎：不……我需要一些时间才能反应过来。我没有注意到你接近，一些过去的事故钝化了我的感知。
Charon: Your presence is familiar, but faces and names come slowly. There are so many memories here. It can be difficult to tell what is ... from what was.

玛尔纱：那下次我会多等你一会儿。
Marsha: I'll wait a little longer next time.

山坡底部，一块风格独特的石质纪念碑吸引了她的目光。
Marsha turns her eyes to a stone monument placed at the base of the hill.

那是一块倾斜着放置在地面上的石板，雕饰以精美的纹路。
A slanted slab, laid flat on the ground, etched with elegant carvings.

玛尔纱：爱国者们……这块纪念碑是你自己雕刻的吗？
Marsha: The Patriots? Did you make this cenotaph?

卡戎：不是出自我。一位陌生人捐赠了这块纪念碑。
Charon: A stranger brought it here. A gift for the dead.

玛尔纱：喔……
Marsha: I see ...

玛尔纱：艾伯哈特·布劳恩少校的包裹，我给你送来了。
Marsha: I found your major's package. Here.

她将一只单薄的信封交到收尸人手中，一同送出的还有一纸手写的便签。
She hands the figure a thin envelope—along with it, a handwritten note.

玛尔纱：这张纸条是从前线来的指令，布劳恩少校命令你立刻到营部报道。他不知道你去了哪儿，就把信件送到蒙佩了。
Marsha: A message came for you, I think. From the front. It seems your major needs you to report back immediately.

卡戎展开便签，用相当严谨的态度读完了简短的指令。
Charon unfolds the note.

卡戎：我明白了，很快我就会离开。
Charon: Yes. Soldiers must go where they are ordered.

玛尔纱：还有一件事……刺杀事件发生之后，蒙佩的新任负责人是刻雷乌斯，他很快就会抵达。
Marsha: Another thing. They're sending a new head of security to oversee the safe zone.

玛尔纱：他是一个高个子的红发男人，负责刺杀事件的后续调查，有任何需要的话，你可以与他联络。
Marsha: His name is Creius, a tall man with red hair. He'll be responsible for investigating the assassination. You can contact him if you need anything.

玛尔纱：基金会已经加强了周边道路的警戒，你应该不会遇到……
Marsha: The Foundation has already tightened security on every road to the town. I don't think you'll run into ...

？？？：……
???: ...

她出现在杂草丛生的土路上。
She appears once again on a weed-choked dirt path.

玛尔纱：……危险——分子？
Marsha: ... any danger on your way back.

雨披，步枪，以及那独特的头饰——玛尔纱绝不会认错。
Raincloak, rifle, that distinctive headpiece—Marsha could never mistake her.

玛尔纱：是你——
Marsha: You're ...

玛尔纱向前迈出一大步，却出乎意料地遭到墓地看护人的阻拦。
Marsha steps forward, only to be blocked by the gravekeeper.

卡戎：冷静，玛尔纱，请不要在死者长眠之地制造更多的纷争。
Charon: The dead rest here. They have seen enough violence.

玛尔纱：可是，你也许不知道，但——
Marsha: You don't know what she did. She ...

急促的气流在紧紧咬住的牙缝间穿梭。即使她已经在努力克制自己的情绪，但手仍然不自觉地攀上武器。
A burst of breathy air rushes out behind clenched teeth. Though she tries to restrain herself, her hand climbs up to the sidearm at her waist.

玛尔纱：难道你认识她？
Marsha: Do you know her?

卡戎：是她为这片墓地捐赠了你刚刚看过的纪念碑……
Charon: She brought the cenotaph to honor the dead.

？？？：……
???: ...

陌生人未发一语地来到纪念碑前，垂首伫立，对身旁的敌意毫不在意。
The stranger walks to the monument, standing perfectly still before it and paying no heed to either of them.

她从披风中取出一枝白色的野菊花。
She pulls a single white wild chrysanthemum from her cloak.

在柔软花瓣的衬托下，吊唁者手上的石质皮肤格外显眼。
Her stone-like skin stands out against the soft petals.

玛尔纱：石质的……皮肤？还有这个头饰……
Marsha: Her skin ... It looks as if it were made of stone. And that headwear, I feel I've seen it elsewhere.

玛尔纱：难道……不……
Marsha: Could you possibly be ...

空气中出现了沙哑的念诵声。身处近旁的人，也不自觉地聆听未曾听闻的祷词。
Then a soft rumble, grumbling chanting. Even without hearing the words, she understands what it is: prayer.

？？？：……残破的躯壳将被遗弃，漫长的苦修行将落幕。
???: The broken shell is abandoned, granting an end to endless penance.

？？？：……愿灵魂能安然穿越黑夜中林立的廊柱。
???: May thy souls travel through the arches from darkness to peace.

？？？：……无畏血红之眼的注视，直至抵达永恒至福的国度。
???: May thy path be unfettered by eyes of red as you reach for paradise.

白色的花被放置在纪念碑前。
The white flower is left at the foot of the stone.

？？？：……
???: ...

她默想片刻，随后，在空气中勾勒出一道奇特的图形。
She pauses in thought, then traces a strange shape in the air.

仪式结束了，吊唁者转过身，对上玛尔纱满是戒备的目光。
The ritual is over. The mourner turns and meets Marsha's guarded eyes.

？？？：又见面了，小骑士。
???: We meet again, young knight.

11TH-06 反战宣言 / A Push for Peace

陌生人再次端详起玛尔纱。
The stranger studies Marsha again.

“哨兵”：不易动怒的，胜过勇士；能克制己心的，强于攻城。
Sentinel: He that is slow to anger is better than the mighty, and he that ruleth his spirit than he that taketh a city.

玛尔纱：——什么？
Marsha: Pardon?

“哨兵”：我喜欢你的冷静。
Sentinel: You possess remarkable self-control. A trait seldom seen.

莫名所以的赞许令战地医生有些摸不着头脑。
A hint of approval, odd and unspoken, leaves Marsha unsure how to react.

玛尔纱：我有问题要问你。
Marsha: My thanks. But I have a question.

“哨兵”：正好，我也需要一个答案。
Sentinel: As I have one for you.

玛尔纱：为什么你要刺杀上校？
Marsha: Why did you kill the colonel?

“哨兵”：我们的问题是相对的——为什么要保护希施费尔德？
Sentinel: Answer me likewise: why did you protect him?

玛尔纱指向身旁的山坡，简陋的墓碑伫立在纵横交错的沟壑中。
Marsha gestures toward the slope to the row of crude headstones filling the ridge.

玛尔纱：因为不要再让更多人遭到战争的摧残。
Marsha: We're trying to end the war.

“哨兵”：我也一样。
Sentinel: And I, as well.

玛尔纱：你杀死的人是停火的希望，你有什么资格为这些死去的人献花？
Marsha: You seem to mourn the dead, but you don't realize how far you've set us back? We were nearing a ceasefire.

身下，苍白的花儿在干燥的风中翻滚。
Petals from pale flowers tumble by in the dry wind.

“哨兵”轻轻靠前一步，用雨披挡住冷风，不至于让野菊花过早地被风吹走。
Sentinel leans forward, gently shielding the flowers from the wind with her cloak.

“哨兵”：战争已经进行了六年，和平不像你所想的那样容易到来。你对你——还有基金会在做的事情了解多少？
Sentinel: 6 years, and the war rages still. Do you think ending bloodshed is as simple as to say: 'tis done? Have you any mind of the mission the Foundation pursues here?

玛尔纱：我们很清楚自己在做什么。
Marsha: We know it won't be simple.

玛尔纱：总参谋部有停火的意愿，所以他们才派出代表——
Marsha: Yet each side was open to negotiation. That's why they sent ...

“哨兵”：呵——
Sentinel: Heh.

她轻声嘲笑，仿佛看到一只试图证明自己更强大的小动物。
The chuckle is wry and dark.

“哨兵”：如果你们清楚，就不会把希施费尔德当成和谈的希望。
Sentinel: You placed false hope on Hirschfelder. You invited a wolf into a bed of lambs.

“哨兵”：也许在你们看来，他的死导致前线战火重燃，可是……即使我不杀他，谈判也注定会失败。
Sentinel: You think his death to be the spark of a reignited war, but, even if I had stayed my hand from him, your plans would have been for naught.

“哨兵”：重塑之手早已做好了计划。
Sentinel: The Manus scheme and the wicked prosper.

玛尔纱：——！
Marsha: ...!

玛尔纱：你接触过重塑之手？
不，难道你的意思是说——希施费尔德是重塑之手的成员？
Marsha: Manus Vindictae. You know of their plans? Then, you're claiming that Hirschfelder was a Manus?

片刻的沉默之后，狙击手开始讲述。
She lets the question linger long enough to feel unanswered, then the sniper begins.

“哨兵”：与重塑之手有牵连的人分为两类。
Sentinel: He is not one of those devils. He is only one tool of many.

“哨兵”：希施费尔德是第一类。他们与重塑之手合作，换取继续战争的资源和技术。
Sentinel: The Manus offer the gifts of Mammon and Asmodeus: greed and destruction. Hirschfelder was tempted by their technologies and became a willing servant in their schemes.

远处，遥远的炮火声如受困巨兽的哀嚎，它越过山头，滚落到公墓所处的谷地中。
A groan rises up from the horizon, the sound of distant artillery drumming, throbbing like the heartbeat of a wounded beast.

刺杀军官的狙击手伸出了第二根指头。
She raises a second finger.

“哨兵”：第二种，是重塑之手通过神秘学手段影响的普通人。这些人对战争与荣誉抱有狂热到异常的渴望。
Sentinel: But others serve them unknowing, affected by an arcane skill which clouds their eyes in red mists, driven to blood and glory as a starving dog is to the hunt.

解说者的目光转向一旁缄口不言的收尸人。
Her eyes shift to the stiff outline of a soldier she knows as Charon.

“哨兵”：你的营长，艾伯哈特·布劳恩是第二种。
Sentinel: Your commander, Eberhard Braun, bears that mist.

卡戎：……
Charon: ...

士官缓慢地理解着对方话语中的含义。再次开口时，他的语调产生了微不可察的变化。
It takes a moment for the words to find some impact. When he speaks again, there seems to be a change in his voice.

卡戎：你会杀死他吗？——就像希施费尔德一样。
Charon: Then will you see that death comes to him, as you did Hirschfelder?

“哨兵”：这取决于他的死会带来多少价值。
Sentinel: That is not yet certain. I do not kill without purpose.

布劳恩少校的士官未作回答，即使面部被遮盖，仍能从他身上看出一种陷于困顿的茫然。
Charon does not seem to find a reply, his mask concealing any trace of emotion.

玛尔纱：你刚刚说的那些……与重塑之手有关的话，你要怎么证明？
Marsha: What you just said about the Manus ... Can you confirm any of it?

玛尔纱：如果你知道些什么，基金会可以听取你的信息，我们可以达成合作。
Marsha: The Foundation could make use of any intelligence you have. We may be able to save these peace talks.

玛尔纱：至少，你可以先证明对希施费尔德上校的指控——
Marsha: But we will need proof.

“哨兵”：我不会自证。
Sentinel: All is vain. There is nothing new under the sun.

“哨兵”：我尝试过，而且也已因此受到过审判与侮辱。
那些靴子上连泥点都没有的大人物从来不会在乎士兵们能证明什么。
Sentinel: When I told my commander about the Manus, all I received for my effort was scorn. Their eyes were not satisfied with seeing, nor their ears with hearing. Kings and generals yet still turn a blind eye to the suffering.

“哨兵”：如果他们有能力理解前线士兵万分之一的痛苦，这场战争在一开始就会结束。
Sentinel: If they had a shred of the light of God within them, they would never have pursued this war.

“哨兵”：对于你们——我不相信一群官僚能带来和平。
Sentinel: As for the Foundation ... That which is crooked cannot be made straight, and what is wanting cannot be numbered. I have no faith in them.

她收回目光，拉住雨披的一角，将自己紧紧裹住。
She looks away, pulling her cloak tighter.

“哨兵”：到此为止。
Sentinel: That is all I have to say.

卡戎：……请你——
Charon: Spare him.

在吊唁者即将离去的那一刻，卡戎突然开口，似乎方才他一直在试图理解前者对他说过的最后一句话。
Charon speaks, the change in his voice now more acute, more vivid, and more personal.

卡戎：——请你给艾伯哈特·布劳恩一个生存的机会，我会让他活着变得更有……价值。
Charon: Eberhard Braun. I need you to spare his life.

“哨兵”：这与我无关。
Sentinel: Neither mercy nor vengeance is mine to give.

“1920年，战争已经成为一种混杂不清的总体印象，它被灌注以多种形式的英雄主义与悲伤情绪。”
"It is officially 1920. I wonder at other people's impressions of this war; from what I've seen, there are two contrasting views—though in various forms—one of heroism and the other, sadness."

“它塑造出一种残酷的现实性观念：战争必然是新时代的序曲。”
"There is one truth which I have found bridges both of these visions, despite how cruel it may sound—'This war is the prelude of a new era.'"

“如若不然……如若千万计的死亡只是旧时代的一场阵痛，那么我们的文明观念将被彻底粉碎。”
"I have to believe that ... Because if this death and destruction so unparalleled in history does not herald change, then there is no hope for humanity."

刻雷乌斯：人去楼空啊。
Creius: How bleak.

“Ⅻ”小队队长站在蒙佩的街道上，凝视着希施费尔德上校遇害的现场。
The leader of the "XII" stands on the streets of Montpaix, looking over where Colonel Hirschfelder was killed.

他抵达时，所有军方人员已经从安全区撤走，只有少数仍在值守的基金会人员守着略显凄凉的废墟。
By the time he arrives, all other military forces have withdrawn. Only the Foundation remains on site to guard the ruins of the town.

“警官”：“乌鸫”，过来帮把手。
"Officer": Blackbird, give me a hand.

梅蕾尔：等我吃完这口，“警官”……
Merel: As soon as I finish my bread, Beagle.

随他一同抵达的小队成员正在重新布置镇子内的防御工事，如今他们的防线已经收缩到了街道的一角。
His team has already begun shoring up the town's defenses. Their line pulled back to just a corner of the street.

基金会安保：长官，除了您本人的小队成员，目前可供调遣的武装人员共有122名，其中23人为神秘学家。
Foundation Security Staff: There are 122 armed personnel available at your disposal, sir. 23 of them are arcanists.

基金会安保：这是他们的个人资料，请您过目。
Foundation Security Staff: I've brought you their profiles.

男人接过安保队员递来的人事资料，目光转向悬挂着基金会旗帜的临时指挥所。
He takes the personnel file from the security staff member, eyes shifting toward the makeshift HQ flying the Foundation flag.

刻雷乌斯：我会仔细阅读，现在请你回到岗位。重点确保指挥所的安全。
Creius: Right then. I'll read through these. Now get back to your position. I need eyes on our command post.

基金会安保：明白。
Foundation Security Staff: Yes, sir.

安保人员转身离去。与此同时，身穿甲胄的战地医生迎上前来。
The staff member walks away. And in the same moment, a curiously armored field medic approaches.

刻雷乌斯：是你，玛尔纱。
Creius: Marsha, is it?

玛尔纱：你知道我的名字，刻雷乌斯长官？
Marsha: You recognize me, Mr. Creius?

刻雷乌斯：我在路上读过你的报告——关于在森林和公墓中遇见的狙击手。
Creius: I read your report on my way here. You're the one that encountered our sniper. Twice now, I hear.

玛尔纱：嗯，在报告里我遗漏了两件事——刺杀事件发生时，有个不知名的人通过基金会的通讯器向我发出了警告。
Marsha: Correct. I have some additional details about my encounters. The first is that I appear to have been followed out into the forest the first time. I was warned on my device just after the shooting.

刻雷乌斯：这件事不用在意，第二件呢？
Creius: Never mind that. What about the other thing?

玛尔纱：不用……好的，另一件事是，那名狙击手应该是一个石像鬼。
Marsha: That doesn't concern you? Fine. The other thing is that I have reason to believe our sniper is a Gargoyle.

刻雷乌斯：石像鬼？
Creius: A Gargoyle?

玛尔纱：没错，这支神秘学家族裔中的一部分人在大战中加入了军队，作为神秘术反制与支援部队投入战场。
Marsha: There are records of Gargoyles participating in this war as part of arcane skill response units.

玛尔纱：他们能石化自己的器官，抵挡轻武器和流弹的伤害。同时，石像鬼似乎有方法让人忽视他们的存在……
Marsha: They're able to petrify their bodies at will, making them immune to small-caliber arms, and I believe they're able to render themselves undetectable.

刻雷乌斯：你之前和石像鬼有过交手？
Creius: Sounds as if you've fought them before.

长官的提问令报告人陷入了短暂的低落，但后者还是如实回答了问题。
The assumption pierces her more cleanly than any bullet, but she forces the emotion down, giving an answer as truthful as she can bear.

玛尔纱：……可以这么说。
Marsha: You could say that.

刻雷乌斯：所以，她是通过特殊的神秘术绕过了基金会对蒙佩的监视……应该向总部申领反制神秘术的监测设备……
Creius: It would go far to explain how she managed to enter Montpaix without being noticed. I'll have to ask HQ to send us a counter-arcanum device.

刻雷乌斯：对希施费尔德的刺杀有极强的针对性，她或许掌握了相当多关于重塑之手的情报……
Creius: She shot the colonel, but then slipped out, leaving our own agents unharmed. We can't be sure of anything, but we can't rule out that she may possess reliable intel about the Manus.

一阵急促的脚步声打断了刻雷乌斯的思考。
Rushed footsteps interrupt Creius's thoughts.

？？？：刻雷乌斯先生？
???: Mr. Creius?

一名孤独的访客突然造访，他穿着体面的服装，却难掩刚刚经过一路颠沛的现状。
The newcomer is obviously out of place—the sort of well-dressed that usually comes with fanfare.

格奥尔格：我是跨党团委员会的代表，格奥尔格。我希望代表帝国议会与基金会就和平谈判展开新的交涉。
Georg: I am Georg Kramer from the Inter-Factional Committee. I've come on behalf of the parliament to start another round of negotiation with the Foundation.

刻雷乌斯：和平谈判已经被取消了，格奥尔格先生，蒙佩已经没有政治的空间。
Creius: Didn't you get the message? The parley has been canceled, Mr. Kramer. Seems there's no more room for negotiations.

刻雷乌斯：基金会仍然留在这里，只是为了追查重塑之手的踪迹。
Creius: My job now is to investigate the possible involvement of Manus Vindictae.

议员向前一步，虽然他谨慎地压低了声音，但仍旧难掩一丝急促的激动情绪。
The visitor steps forward. Though he lowers his voice, a trace of urgency and excitement leaks through.

格奥尔格：……我正是为这个目的而来，先生。
Georg: Precisely what I'm here for, sir.

格奥尔格：我得到了基金会的警告——重塑之手正在掌控军队的权力，我对这样的前景深感担忧。
Georg: We received a warning from the Foundation that Manus Vindictae has infiltrated our armed forces and is attempting to usurp our rightful authority. I am worried this may be true.

格奥尔格：我们的国家已站在崩溃的边缘，从政治与理智上来说，这场战争毫无继续下去的理由。
Georg: I do not intend to lie, sir; Germany lies on the verge of total collapse. Both politically and rationally speaking, we have no reason to continue this war.

格奥尔格：总参谋部却对国内的艰难困境视而不见，如此失控地继续推动战争，我严重怀疑有重塑之手参与其中。
Georg: Yet it seems our army command is out of control; they are determined to drive this war to its bitter end regardless of the misery and death they're causing. And I have reason to believe the Manus are behind it.

刻雷乌斯：这么说，这是总参谋部并不知情的秘密造访。
Creius: I take it Army Command is not aware of your visit then, Mr. Kramer.

一针见血的判断令对方稍有尴尬。
The observation is sharp, to the point, and, quite obviously, correct.

或许是想显露出一些权威性，跨党团代表忽然整顿了一番自己的仪态。
Perhaps to reassert some authority, the man arches his shoulders back, adopting an almost regal pose.

格奥尔格：我代表的是帝国议会中的大多数，在和平问题上，首相也站在我们这一边。
Georg: I represent the majority of the parliament, sir, as well as the office of the Imperial Chancellor.

格奥尔格：几乎所有党派都已经联合起来，我们需要的只是一份压倒性的证据。
Georg: We are united now. All we need is some hard evidence.

格奥尔格：如果我能向皇帝和议会证明，军队已经被邪教团体掌控，他们将立刻倒台。
Georg: If it can be proven to His Imperial Majesty and to the chancellor that Army Command has been infiltrated by this Manus cult, I am certain we will have the authority to end this.

刻雷乌斯：也就是说，你希望我向你分享追查重塑之手的结果，用以对抗军队的权力。
Creius: So, you're asking me to share the result of my investigation to root out the rotten apples in your army.

格奥尔格：没错，在议会取得决定权之后，我们会尽一切努力推动和平谈判。
Georg: I am, sir. We'll do everything we can to restart the parley once we take control.

他郑重其事地点头，突如其来的冬季风还是将他的头发与衣领吹乱。
His head bows deep and serious, though the sudden winter wind tosses his hair and collar out of place.

他深吸一口气。
He pulls in a deep breath.

格奥尔格：我们愿意接受一定限度的有条件和平。当然，这不只是因为我所代表的政治立场。
Georg: And we're willing to reach a ceasefire on certain conditions. I assure you I'm not just saying this because of my stance ...

格奥尔格：为了国家和人民的未来，这场战争绝不能再继续下去了。
Georg: For the sake of my country and its people, this war must be stopped.

11TH-07 人的样貌 / Under the Veil

“在前线的前三个月，我对敌人一无所知，也不了解战壕对面究竟有什么。另一边仿佛立着一堵黑色的墙。”
"In the first three months, I had no idea who I was fighting or what lay on the other side of the trenches. It was as if there were a black wall standing between us and our enemy."

“即将到来的攻势让我彻夜难眠。我害怕被杀……不知为何，我也害怕看清敌人的样貌。”
"They could attack at any time. I can't sleep. I don't want to die. I don't want to see their faces. I don't want to know what our enemy looks like. And worst of all, I don't know why."

当士官抵达战壕时，袭扰性的炮击已经结束。除了侧翼偶尔传来一阵急促的重机枪点射，总体而言，前线恢复了平静。
By the time Charon returns to the trenches, the most recent bombardment has already ended. A trench can never really be called calm, but the rattle of machine guns and the crack of rifles slow and fade into the background.

炮火没有给战场带来更多改变——无非是一些新的弹坑取代了旧的弹坑。
The shelling hasn't changed much—a few new craters to replace the old ones.

埃里希：哦……你回来了，邮递员——弗兰兹呢？
Erich: Ah so, you're back, mailman. Tell us, where did you take little Franz?

卡戎：他已安然入土。
Charon: He lies beneath stone in a silent wood and marches no more.

埃里希闷哼一声，跺了跺脚上的新靴子，以作回应。
Erich grunts out a reply. He's standing in Franz's boots—freshly shined.

埃里希：……我和威利打赌，你会利用这个机会逃跑。看来我输了。
Erich: Hmph. I bet Mr. Willi you'd take the opportunity to keep walking and never come back. Lucky me.

卡戎：威利呢？
Charon: Where is he?

埃里希：他死了。现在我是连长了。
Erich: He's dead. I guess you'll call me "Mr. Captain" now.

埃里希看向身侧，似乎这里就是威利阵亡的地方。
Erich casts his eyes to a new crater decorating their trench.

埃里希：他挨了一炮，肩膀不见了。
Erich: He caught a shell. Just like that.

他的脸色不太好看，以至于显得有些恼怒，头顶一些发青的血管在跳动。
Erich's face pales and then runs flush red, throbbing veins straining out along his forehead.

埃里希：那家伙运气不好……他妈的——！
Erich: Lucky me. Unlucky him. That bastard!

他突然暴怒而起，三两步上前揪住士官的衣领。
He rushes to Charon, grabbing him by the collar.

埃里希：这里完全就是一片地狱，你回这鬼地方来干什么？为什么不走？！
Erich: He died, and now who do I pay up to? Why'd you even bother coming back? We have enough ghosts in this goddamn trench!

他愤怒地将士官摔在战壕的胸墙上。
Erich pulls Charon up and tosses him against the trench wall.

埃里希：四处捡一些死尸会让你好过吗？你能教会我们像你一样死而复生吗？！——你在耀武扬威吗！
Erich: You waltz through here whenever you like just to take away our brothers. You bury them. Why? Why do you get to return and they stay dead? Are you mocking us?

被摔出去的一方只是勉强站直身子，没有反抗的意思。
Charon slumps but does not fall, making no effort to fight against Erich's strength.

卡戎：……请原谅我。在这场战争中我能做的并不多，许多事情只会让我感到无能为力，埃里希。
Charon: Death does not mock. Nor can it stop its return. It is as helpless as any other soldier to do his duty.

卡戎：我对自己的命运也一无所知，死亡的黑暗笼罩在战场之上，我看不见前进的道路。
Charon: What fate lies ahead of us is unknown; its winding path cannot be seen until we step through it. None choose the hour when death finds us.

埃里希：嘁——
Erich: S**t!

埃里希燥热的情绪极速冷却下去，就像刚刚什么也没有发生。
A curse, flat and empty, and just like that, the fire and fury are gone from him.

战壕里的士兵对此早已习以为常，他们甚至连抬头观看这场争执的兴趣也没有。
Soldiers walk by, look away, and continue their work. A hundred pairs of eyes, and each of them numb to the chaotic scene.

埃里希：我会尽量死得好看点，记得把我收拾干净。
去送你的信吧。
Erich: I just want to keep myself in one piece when my time comes. Better make sure I look good for my funeral, alright? Now, off you go.

观察员：——连长，过来看看。
Spotter: Sir, there's movement coming from no man's land.

执勤的观察员打断了二人的交谈，他递给埃里希一柄战壕潜望镜。
The spotter interrupts their standoff, handing Erich a trench periscope.

埃里希：看到什么了？
Erich: What?

埃里希拿过潜望镜，趴在胸墙壁上向无人区窥视。
Erich grabs the scope and crouches up to a nearby parapet.

埃里希：嗯……我看到了……两个人。突击队？
Erich: Hmm, that's just two soldiers. Could it be a trench raid?

观察员：不可能。现在是白天，他们不仅没有任何掩护，而且好像还在吸引我们的注意力。
Spotter: I don't think so, Mr. Captain. Why would they go over the top in broad daylight? Look, they're waving their arms.

埃里希：还真是，他们在挥手，这是找死吗？等等，他们手上都缠着绷带……
Erich: Huh? What are they doing? Wait, their hands are wrapped in bandages.

观察员：有什么问题吗？
Spotter: Is that a problem?

埃里希缩回战壕，把潜望镜还给观察员。
Erich returns the periscope to the spotter.

埃里希：拿好，你继续盯着他们。我大概明白是怎么回事了。
Erich: Keep your eye on them, soldier. I think I know what's going on.

卡戎：怎么回事？
Charon: The living walk over dead men's ground.

埃里希：这些人应该是对面的逃兵，我听过——他们会朝自己的手掌开枪自残，好回到后方去。但现在这事是要判死刑的。
Erich: Deserters, I'll bet. I heard some soldiers used to shoot their own palms so they could be sent back to the rear. But they reward that kind of cowardice with bullets nowadays.

卡戎：为什么要把他们送到无人区？
Charon: Do they come seeking death or life?

埃里希：最近有很多行刑队遇刺，这事儿多了之后，两边的军官就像形成了默契，直接把死刑犯扔到无人区等死。
Erich: With all the officers keeping their heads low, maybe they decided they don't want to do the punishing themselves? Just kick these poor bastards out of the trench and tell them to walk till they drop.

卡戎：……
Charon: ...

士官花了一些时间，让新与旧的记忆在脑中交错相连。
Old and new memories intertwine in Charon's mind, forming an incomplete but certain thought.

卡戎：他们没有战斗的意志，我们有理由安全地放他们过来。
Charon: They do not march to us as warriors but as broken men.

埃里希：……你说得没错，也就两个人。嘿，谁会法语？
Erich: You're right. Pass it down the line. Does anyone here speak French?

观察员：我……我可以试试。我在学校的时候学过半年的法语课。
Spotter: Yes. A little. I took some French back in school.

埃里希：那你来喊两句，动听点儿！
Erich: Hurry, hurry! Say something!

观察员：是，长官。
Spotter: Yes, Mr. Captain.

观察员将脑袋紧紧贴在沙袋上，尽可能让声音从射击口中传出去。
The spotter presses his head against the sandbags, trying to project his voice through the firing slit.

观察员：欸——喂——
Spotter: Hey, you, over there!

逃兵：……？！
Deserter: …?!

观察员：两个，你们——你们两个，放下武器，过来，不开枪，一定不开枪。
Spotter: Let go of your—er—weapons and ... ah—just come here!

观察员：我们——
Spotter: We ...

观察员：怎么回事？！
Spotter: What the ...!

埃里希：他妈的——是哪个天杀的开的枪？！
Erich: Goddamn! Who the hell shot him?

此刻，在相隔不远的另一条战壕。
Voices carry from around the trench line.

布劳恩少校：你还在等什么？！
Major Braun: What are you waiting for, soldier?

艾伯哈特·布劳恩少校站在战壕中，面色铁青。
The major's face is ashen and stiff.

罗尔夫：他已经死了！
Rudolph: I killed him.

罗尔夫发出惨叫般的回答。他趴在沙袋上，握住步枪的手一直在发抖，一缕灰色的烟雾仍在枪口萦绕。
Rudolph stammers out the words, lying propped up against a sandbag, wisps of gray smoke lingering out from his shaking rifle.

他有严重的近视，却反倒是营中最好的射手之一。
His glasses are thick as a church window, and still he's the best marksman in the company.

布劳恩少校：还有一个，你的眼睛终于是瞎了吗？
Major Braun: And the other bastard's still standing! Are you blind?

罗尔夫：他已经投降了，他们……他们都已经丢掉了武器。
Rudolph: But Mr. Major, he's surrendered. He ... dropped his weapon.

布劳恩少校：这是一个诡计，白痴，外面那些混账可能带着炸弹，或者是传染病。
Major Braun: It's a trap, you idiot! They have a bomb or some kind of infectious disease!

布劳恩少校：我们也没有东西来养这些俘虏。
Major Braun: Do you want to keep him, soldier? You going to share your rations with him?

罗尔夫：我们不需要照顾战俘，只要能把他们送到后方的战俘营去……或者基金会也可以——
Rudolph: Mr. Major, we're supposed to accept all prisoners. There are camps to send them to ... or even the safe zone.

罗尔夫：——！
Rudolph: ...!

军官的手枪抵住狙击手的胸口。
He pulls his pistol and points it at the marksman's chest.

布劳恩少校：干掉他，这是命令。
不然我也会把你送到外面去，让你看看对面的狙击手有没有同情心。
Major Braun: That was an order, soldier. You are to shoot that foreign devil, or I'll send you out to test if their snipers are as spineless as you are.

罗尔夫：我……我——
Rudolph: I-I ...

卡戎：——少校。
Charon: Major.

浑浊的呼唤声在壕沟中传递，麇集的士兵们很快让出了一条通道。
Rasping voices ripple down the trench as bodies make way for a figure moving like a charge in slow motion.

布劳恩少校循声望去。
Major Braun turns toward the sound.

布劳恩少校：你？——是什么让你迟到了这么久，这已经严重违反了军纪。
Major Braun: Charon? What took you so long? Don't you know I could have you shot for dereliction of duty?

卡戎：我会接受迟到的惩罚，但首先，我请求你收回给罗尔夫的命令，不要向逃兵开枪。
Charon: Punish the guilty then, but the man that stands alone is innocent. Spare him.

少校为这番忤逆的说辞感到惊愕，他锋利的目光移向自己的士官。
The statement is stunning in its sharpness. Defiance is not a trait Major Braun has come to expect from him.

布劳恩少校：你没有权力指使你的长官。
Major Braun: You are not entitled to challenge my authority, sergeant.

卡戎：逃兵已经放弃了战斗，我们没有理由再向他们开枪。
Charon: His war is over. His blood should not water these fields.

布劳恩少校：软弱！
Major Braun: Cowards!

少校向前大跨一步，逼向士官，军靴响亮地敲在战壕铺设的木板上。
Major Braun strides forward in a single step, boots thudding against the trench's wooden planks.

埃里希：妈的——
Erich: Bastard!

布劳恩少校：——这是在军队里蔓延的瘟疫，是外国人的小市民思想在我们年轻人心中种下的毒瘤。
Major Braun: You're just like those foreigners, poisoning the hearts of our youth with feckless sentimentality—your weakness, this fatalism—is a plague spreading through our ranks!

布劳恩少校：敌人想灭亡我们的祖国，而你却还在为他们求情。还有你所谓的墓地，卡戎，都是这种软弱的产物。
Major Braun: That man over there is a threat to our fatherland, yet you plead for his life!

他用逼迫性的目光扫视在场的其他人。
A single unblinking stare sweeps over the gathered soldiers, cowing each man into silence.

布劳恩少校：只有战争能塑造我们的民族，铁与血会消除我们心中的怯懦和卑微，我们由此才能与祖辈的荣耀相连接。
Major Braun: I won't let this cowardice ruin our nation! We will keep fighting until no man alive stands against us! Only through their blood and our tireless sacrifice will we grow fearless and retrieve the glory of our birthright!

卡戎：这场战争已经成了毫无意义的杀戮，少校，我们从中只会得到苦难、罪恶与悔恨。
Charon: There is no glory for the dead, Eberhard. Only suffering, guilt, and regret for those that remain.

卡戎：杀死一名逃兵无法在任何人心中铸造勇气与信念，只会让他们成为蔑视生命的屠夫。
Charon: No courage is found in the blood of the innocent, only stains that can never be washed out.

布劳恩少校：一派胡言！
Major Braun: Nonsense!

卡戎：这些话和我过去对你的了解完全不同，少校，我原以为是我的记忆出现了混淆……
Charon: I remember, you, Major Braun, my old friend, would never say these things.

卡戎：难道你在后方休假的那段时间，真的与重塑之手有过接——
Charon: What lies were whispered in your ears by Manus Vindictae?

布劳恩少校：闭嘴！——这是你从哪里听来的谣言？！
Major Braun: Shut up! That's slander! Who told you that?

卡戎：请你冷静，我只是想和你谈一谈——
Charon: I ... do not slander you, Mr. Major.

布劳恩少校：我命令你解释刚才的言行，士官！
Major Braun: Explain yourself. Explain all of this!

不受控制的咆哮如轰鸣的炮火一般砸在士官身上。
The man roars, and for a second time, Charon is slammed against the trench wall.

布劳恩少校：你在——指控我——什么？！
Major Braun: Lies—Manus Vindictae—what do you mean?

卡戎：……不要这样。
Charon: These are not your eyes.

布劳恩少校：回答我！！
Major Braun: Answer me!

他猝然挥出一记猛击。
But this man's fire does not temper. It bursts.

反应过慢的士官未能成功躲避，手枪握把狠狠地砸在他的头部。
Charon reacts too slowly to evade the pistol as it is smashed across his head.

布劳恩少校：……！
Major Braun: ...!

——少校自己都没有预料到会有这般动作。
Major Braun's eyes are fixed on the pistol in his hand, anger replaced with shock.

被击伤的士官停在原地，一只手扶着低垂的头。“帷幕”之下，仿佛有什么东西正在碎裂。
Charon, now wounded, raises his hand to meet his bowed head. Beneath the "curtain," something seems to crack.

卡戎：……
Charon: ...

布劳恩少校：…………把头抬起来。
Major Braun: Raise your head, sergeant.

卡戎：不，艾伯哈特……
Charon: Eberhard ...

布劳恩少校：是布劳恩少校。现在，我命令你抬起头。
Major Braun: Do not call me that! I am your superior officer. Damn! Obey my orders!

卡戎：……我们都不应该走到这一步。
Charon: It should not have been this way.

士官缓缓抬头，沉闷而迟缓，似乎每一寸移动都要付出极大的代价。
He raises his head. The movement is heavy and labored.

一种庞大而空洞的物质带着令人诧异的宁静，降临在狭窄逼仄的战壕中。
A hollow and foreboding presence seems to fill the trench around them.

布劳恩少校：这是……什么？
Major Braun: Good heavens ...

卡戎：生者本不应目睹这番景象，艾伯哈特。
Charon: This is not a sight fit for the living, Eberhard.

卡戎：但也许，这能唤醒一些你的回忆……
Charon: But perhaps you must be reminded.

布劳恩少校：闭——闭嘴！把你的脸……给、给我遮住——
Major Braun: No! Your face. Cover it now!

卡戎：子弹与炮火下的战栗，战友死亡时的痛苦……为什么，你对此可以遗忘一空，或是视而不见？
Charon: Do you remember the fear as bombs exploded by our sides, the pain when our brothers moaned out their last breaths? Have you forgotten, or have you only hardened your heart?

布劳恩少校：你必须要明白，战争……咳——民族的前进，势必会有牺牲。
Major Braun: This war is ... *cough* sacrifice is necessary for a nation to make progress.

布劳恩少校：每一个士兵都应该明白，牺牲是莫大的光荣，正如同你，保罗——
Major Braun: Every soldier who has died for the fatherland should feel honored for their sacrifice! You should have been honored, Paul—

卡戎：我不是在谈论牺牲。
Charon: We do not speak of sacrifice now.

布劳恩少校：——！
Major Braun: ...!

卡戎：我是在谈论死亡——那与一切伦理无关，绝对的空洞与虚无本身，它是一个单纯的生存问题。
Charon: Death is not honored—death knows no ceremony, it holds no virtues, it is emptiness and void.

卡戎：战争已经让我们对死亡的态度变得比任何时候都要轻浮，恰如现在，艾伯哈特，你对生命丧失了敬意。
Charon: You have become so numb to death that you laugh as it walks among us. It is so close to you that you have mistaken it for life, Eberhard.

卡戎：无论战争的结果究竟如何，我们已经失败了。
Charon: There is nothing to be gained from this war that will pay for what we have already lost.

布劳恩少校：我是你——你的——长官，你想杀死——
Major Braun: You ... want me dead ... then kill me ... do it.

卡戎：我不想杀死任何人。
Charon: Death will not save you, old friend.

卡戎：我只是……希望你能拯救你自己。
Charon: I want you to save yourself.

布劳恩少校：我……啊……啊——！
Major Braun: I ... Ugh ...

士兵们缩在一旁。
The other soldiers huddle to the side.

艾伯哈特·布劳恩少校瘫倒在地，双目失神，面无血色，如同刚刚阵亡的士兵。
Major Braun collapses to the ground. His eyes swirl and then go blank, looking up and nowhere at the same time. His face is bone white and stiff as a corpse.

士官低下身，为他合上双眼，如同他已经为其他死者做过的千万次那般。
Charon kneels over him and closes his eyes. A motion all too familiar to those watching.

埃里希：……妈的，这是发生什么了？
Erich: S**t! What the hell just happened?

罗尔夫战战兢兢地从人群中探出头来。
Rudolph peeks out from the crowd, managing a question both timid and brave.

罗尔夫：少、少校他……死了吗？卡戎，你该不会……
Rudolph: Is Major Braun dead? Charon, you didn't ...

埃里希：你这是……来真的？
Erich: Did you?

士官站直身子，仍旧背向所有人，迟缓而严谨地重新戴好兜帽。
Charon stands, deliberately facing away from the crowd, replacing his mask and hood with careful precision.

卡戎：艾伯哈特不会有事，他仍然活着。我会处理好他。
Charon: He will live. We will leave here together.

卡戎：埃里希，现在你的级别最高，请你接手之后的事。
Charon: You have command, Erich. Make the right choices.

卡戎：另外，我需要处理一些……泄漏出来的东西。在此之前，请不要与我对视。
Charon: I don't want you to see what lies beneath. Please, look away.

埃里希还想再说些什么，最终还是选择闭嘴。
Words bulge at the edge of Erich's lips, but he swallows them back.

战壕内的士兵们还处在震撼之中，而卡戎已经带着艾伯哈特离开。
All others stand stunned and silent as Charon departs with Major Braun in tow.

埃里希：——啧。
Erich: *tut*

埃里希：行了，让活着的那个人进来，我会检查他是不是带着危险物品。
Erich: Alright. Someone grab that deserter. I'll search him.

埃里希：好了好了，别看了，动起来！那些倒霉的家伙还在外面啃泥巴呢。
Erich: Show's over. Move it, soldiers! That poor sap is still waiting. Get moving!

11TH-08 生命的半途 / Death of the Young

不要怕，保罗，参加战争会带给我们荣耀！只要团结在一起，我们不会畏惧任何敌人！
Heh. Don't worry so much, Paul! We'll find glory on the battlefield! No man can stop us as long as we stick together!

走吧，和我一起到征兵办公室去，让穆伦贝格先生知道我们都是男子汉，父母也一定会为我们而骄傲。
Come on, let's join the war and prove ourselves to Mr. Mühlenberge. Think how proud your parents will be—their son, a war hero!

保罗：——艾伯哈特！
Paul: Eberhard!

操——操！迪特里希在哪里？！
Goddamn! Where's Dieterich?

保罗：迪特里希和贝特克都死了——拿上机枪，我们该走了！快！
Paul: He and Baethke are dead! Grab that gun. We need to go! Move!

我们能打赢这场仗吗，保罗？
Do you think we'll win, Paul?

保罗：我不知道……我想回家。
Paul: I don't know, my friend. I think I just want to go home.

如果我们输了，迪特里希，贝特克，埃尔文……他们又是为什么死了？
Dieterich, Baethke, and Elvin ... What did they die for if we just give up?

起来，坚持下去，保罗，只要能打赢这场仗……他们的牺牲就有意义。
Hang in there, Paul! The only way to make their sacrifice count is to win!

我们说过要一起回家的——保罗……保罗！
We promised we'd go home together! Paul ... Paul!

？？？：布劳恩少校，你不该再为那些无谓的情感所纠缠。
???: Major, the past is in the past. You can't change anything by letting yourself be overcome by sorrow.

？？？：我会给你渴望的胜利……
???: Don't forget that victory is the only thing that matters, and we can give it to you.

胜利……你能做什么？
Give it to me? How?

？？？：我要让你成为真正的英雄——不再恐惧，不再犹疑，不再退缩……
???: I'll make you a true hero, one without fear or hesitation.

硝烟与血的味道散尽了。
Smoke and blood fade into the distance.

他感觉自己躺在一块木板上，被某种力量拖着前进。
Eberhard lies on a wooden board dragged by some unseen force.

艾伯哈特：咳……咳咳！
Eberhard: *cough*

先是一阵猛烈的咳嗽，随后，艾伯哈特如溺水者一般吞咽着空气。泥土中埋藏的腐烂腥气灌入他的肺腔。
He swallows air like a drowning man, and immediately the foul stench of decay fills his lungs.

拖行的力量消失了。
The dragging stops.

保罗：你醒了。
Paul: You're awake.

艾伯哈特：……保罗？
Eberhard: Paul?

士官默不作声。他低下身，握住艾伯哈特向前伸出的手，将他从地上扶起。
But the man behind the mask says nothing. He only offers a hand.

艾伯哈特：我的脑袋，天呐……好痛。
Eberhard: Ah. My head ... It hurts.

他双目失神地望着周身的景物，过了很长时间才找到视觉的焦点。
Eberhard struggles to adjust to his surroundings, taking a long time to find focus.

艾伯哈特：……你要带我去哪里？
Eberhard: Where are you taking me?

保罗：蒙佩，基金会也许有更专业的医生，能帮助你从神秘术的伤害中恢复过来。
Paul: Montpaix. The Foundation may have some cure for the spell you have fallen under.

艾伯哈特：不……不不……
Eberhard: No ... No ...

从噩梦中苏醒的人仍处在一片混乱之中，他只是一味地在否定着什么。
Still dazed after the ordeal, he can only mutter in denial.

他茫然无措地四下张望，似乎是要寻找什么可以依托的东西。最终他又瘫坐在地面，脱下帽子，抓挠着稻草般的金发。
He looks around, searching for something to brace against, eventually finding the ground. He takes off his hat and scratches at his straw-like golden hair.

艾伯哈特：我……天呐，我做了什么——
Eberhard: I ... Good heavens. What did I do?

他仍在喘气，却无论如何都无法让窒息感消失。
He still can't find his breath, each gasp of air only making the choking sensation worse.

艾伯哈特：我杀死了一个……是我下的命令，我记得。
Eberhard: That deserter ... I ordered Rudolph to pull the trigger. But I was the one who killed him.

保罗：还有一个活了下来，他被作为战俘送到了后方。
Paul: The other lives. Erich saw to that.

艾伯哈特：不，不止这一个……还有很多，他们本都可以活下来……
Eberhard: He wasn't the only one. So many have died, and I was the one that sent them to their deaths.

艾伯哈特垂着脑袋，盯着身下的一小块泥土。
Eberhard lowers his head, holding his gaze at a small patch of soil beneath him.

士官透过灰白的斗篷注视着蜷缩的艾伯哈特。
Charon watches him, adjusting his dark cloak.

艾伯哈特：我……想起一首诗，歌德还是席勒……？算了，学校学的东西早就忘光了。
Eberhard: Do you remember, Paul? There was a poem by Goethe, no, Schiller maybe? Ah, those days at school feel like a fairy tale now.

艾伯哈特：我只记得你和迪特里希在黑板前因为默写不出来而抓耳挠腮的样子，穆伦贝格先生气得像一只青蛙。
Eberhard: Mr. Mühlenberge asked you and Dieterich to write it out on the blackboard. You two didn't even know where to start. I remember I thought he was going to snap you both in two.

艾伯哈特：三个月之后，不知怎么，我们就到了前线。迪特里希在第一天就死了。
Eberhard: Just a few months later, we were here. Dieterich died that very first day.

艾伯哈特：……
Eberhard: ...

艾伯哈特：那天晚上我们一起哭，以为失去迪特里希会是我们今生所经历的最大的悲伤。
Eberhard: Do you remember how we cried that night? We thought it would be the saddest day of our lives.

艾伯哈特：…………
Eberhard: ...

艾伯哈特：眼泪很快就不再有了。
Eberhard: We ran out of tears before anything else.

艾伯哈特：………………
Eberhard: ...

艾伯哈特：我很冷，保罗。
Eberhard: I'm cold, Paul.

保罗：恐惧在你体内重新生长，你可以多花一些时间，等待这阵寒冷的感觉过去。
Paul: A fear long absent is growing inside you again. Hold on to it. You'll warm up.

艾伯哈特：……
Eberhard: ...

艾伯哈特咬紧牙关，将自己撑起来。
Eberhard clenches his teeth and braces himself.

艾伯哈特：……这就是你说的那片墓地？弗兰兹埋在这里？
Eberhard: This is the place you found, isn't it? Where Franz was buried.

保罗：没错。
Paul: He lies below us.

艾伯哈特：不光是他，这么多人……他们已经在我之前死去。为什么我还活着，保罗，为什么是我？
Eberhard: There are so many graves, but I'm still alive. Why, Paul, why am I not lying among them?

保罗：战场上的生存，大多只与运气有关。
Paul: The living speak of luck. The rest are silent.

侥幸存活的人对这个答案并不满意，他沉默了一会儿。
The answer doesn't satisfy, but the lone survivor cannot find a new question. After a long silence, he speaks again.

艾伯哈特：我是否能永远保持无知？不去尝试理解眼前发生的一切，就不会……我想这也不对……
Eberhard: I wish I could forget it all now. If I didn't know what happened, I wouldn't—No, no, it's, it's not right for me to ask that ...

艾伯哈特：可是，我现在既然活着，那我还能做些什么？
Eberhard: But I am still alive. Is there anything I can do for them?

保罗：我对生者的命运一无所知，你应该自己决定你要做的事，艾伯哈特。
Paul: That isn't a question for the dead. I can't tell you what to do, Eberhard.

艾伯哈特伸手摸向衣袋，那里空空如也。他只好无奈地闷哼一声。
Eberhard reaches into his coat pocket but finds it empty. He stifles a helpless grunt.

艾伯哈特：我记得你提起过重塑之手。
Eberhard: You mentioned Manus Vindictae.

保罗：是的。
Paul: You remember.

艾伯哈特：……
Eberhard: ...

艾伯哈特：你和基金会的人打过照面，你怎么看？他们真的能结束这场战争？
Eberhard: What about the Foundation? You talked to them too, right? Do you really think they can stop this war?

保罗：结束战争不是他们能独立完成的事，但我知道他们在努力尝试。
Paul: They pursue peace, but it cannot be found by their efforts alone.

他凝视着道路另一头新生的树林。蒙佩小镇与公墓通过一条穿越森林的小路相连。
He turns from the hill to the woods. Through the thicket and further lies the town of Montpaix.

艾伯哈特·布劳恩茫然闭上眼睛，凝思片刻。
Eberhard closes his eyes and waits for his thoughts to settle.

艾伯哈特：走吧，去蒙佩。
Eberhard: Come on. Let's go see Montpaix again.

艾伯哈特：……那是在后方休假的时候，在我准备去学校探望穆伦贝格先生之前，军营里来人把我叫了过去。
Eberhard: I was about to pay a visit to Mr. Mühlenberge when someone from Army Command said the colonel wanted to see me.

艾伯哈特：我被带到一间会议室，和我一起的还有很多军官。他们和我一样，即将晋升到新的职位。
Eberhard: I was taken to a meeting room with many other officers. I recognized them. I knew many had just been promoted like me.

艾伯哈特：希施费尔德上校——没错，就是那个被刺杀的谈判代表，作为总参谋部的代表向新晋军官讲话。
Eberhard: Colonel Hirschfelder showed up to give us a speech—yes, yes, the same colonel who was assassinated after the parley.

艾伯哈特：“民族和国家到了最令英雄们渴求的光荣时刻。”他这么说，“我们将为后代赢得未来一百年的繁荣。”
Eberhard: "The time has come when our nation calls for heroes," he said, "with our foremost goal to create a prosperous new world for our children."

艾伯哈特：“过去两年的一系列行动已经预示着我们本应取得最后的胜利，可士兵却在关键时刻丧失了斗志和勇气。”
Eberhard: "We have fought valiantly, and now the war turns in our favor. We stand but one step away from total victory, yet it is at this very moment that our soldiers have lost their courage."

艾伯哈特：“他们像卑微的流浪汉一样，在敌人的仓库中喝得酩酊大醉，白白延误了战机。”
Eberhard: "They waste their time looting every barn, cellar, and shed in search of treasure and drink to numb their fears, delaying our operations."

艾伯哈特：“这种贪生怕死和缺乏战斗意志的软弱性格是阻碍我军前进的疾病，但好在，我们已经找到了治愈它的方法。”
Eberhard: "Their greed and cowardice have spread through our army like a malignant tumor. Fortunately, we have found a cure."

艾伯哈特：“一个对胜利满怀信念的民间组织，向我们提供了非同凡响的技术……”
Eberhard: "An organization that believes in the promise of our victory has provided us with an extraordinary development ..."

艾伯哈特：后来的话我没听清楚。至于这种技术的细节，我也并不了解。似乎……它能让人在战场上无所畏惧。
Eberhard: That's all I remember. I don't have a mind for technology, but it just washed the fear off me.

艾伯哈特：在场的军官是他们第一批实验对象，我们开始为胜利欢呼、呐喊，就像还未见过战争的可怜的新兵……
Eberhard: Thinking about it now, we must have been like lab rats to them. As soon as they finished their ritual, we became so sure of our victory that we began yelling and singing as one. We were just fresh-faced boys again, thirsty for a war we'd forgotten.

录音暂停，嘶嘶杂音在宽敞的室内回荡，最终消失不见。
The hiss of static echoes through the spacious room, then fades.

刻雷乌斯：各位，先听到这里。做出口述的人是部署在蒙佩周边地区的一名少校营长。
Creius: I think that's enough for now. That was a recording from a German major we encountered in Montpaix.

刻雷乌斯：我会在之后提交详细报告，包括这份口供产生的缘由与完整录音。
Creius: I intend to submit a report with full details, including his entire statement and an explanation for our inquiries.

前线调查负责人保持安静，等待后方决策者的进一步指令。
The head of the frontline investigation quiets, awaiting further instructions from the decision makers at the rear.

Z：……重塑之手的进度比我们预料得要快很多。
Z: Manus Vindictae is moving quicker than any of us could've imagined.

佩德拉：可是……这不符合常理。
Pedra: But none of these makes sense.

佩德拉委员已从前线返回，经历刺杀事件之后，此刻他还有些惊魂未定。
Pedra has returned from the front, still shaken from the assassination attempt.

佩德拉：重塑之手和基金会一同来到这个时代，他们不可能在这么短的时间内就能渗透军方决策层。
Pedra: If they came to this era at the same time as we did, how could they have already infiltrated the military higher-ups in such a short time?

Z：如果这个时代的确受到了阿尔卡纳意志的影响，那这一切并非毫无可能。
Z: We've already theorized that Arcana may now possess the power to rewrite history.

Z：我们无法参照真实历史来确定，这个时代中重塑之手的势力有多大。
Z: Which means going forward. Any records from history as we once knew it will be unreliable for estimating their strength.

佩德拉：……
Pedra: ...

委员陷入凝重的沉默。
Pedra falls into heavy silence.

康斯坦丁：佩德拉，除了希施费尔德上校之外，与你有过交涉的其他国家军方人物对重塑之手有什么看法？
Constantine: Pedra, what were the other representatives' opinions concerning Manus Vindictae?

佩德拉：……他们没有人承认重塑之手的存在。
Pedra: They all denied its existence.

康斯坦丁：这么看，现状的危急程度不允许我们再延续之前的和谈策略。
Constantine: I see. It seems as though we're left with no other option but to change policies.

佩德拉：——我仍然拒绝采用过于激进的手段。
Pedra: No. We can't resort to such radical measures.

“鸽派”的代言人预先表达了立场。
The Doves' representative states his position in advance.

佩德拉：基金会在这个时代的积累不能因为眼下的问题而挥霍一空，和平到来后，我们还需要和政府合作。
Pedra: The Foundation risks alienating any potential allies if we act too aggressively now. This war will not be the end of our fight. We will need to rely on their cooperation in the future.

佩德拉：这一切都建立在对规则的信任之上。
Pedra: And that requires trust and a sense of security.

刻雷乌斯：……至于这点，我有一个新的情况要向各位汇报。
Creius: On the subject of governments, I have some news to report.

刻雷乌斯的声音再次出现在会议室中。
Creius's voice resurfaces in the conference hall.

刻雷乌斯：目前，有一位主张和谈的议会代表秘密造访蒙佩，想要获得与重塑之手有关的线索。
Creius: A man of the Inter-Factional Committee paid a secret visit to Montpaix, hoping to obtain intel about the Manus.

佩德拉：秘密造访？
Pedra: A secret visit?

同为政客的佩德拉委员，很快意识到议会代表此行的目的何在。
As a fellow politician, Pedra immediately grasps the true intent behind their visit.

佩德拉：议会是想借重塑之手的情报，让军队高层因无法受到信任而倒台？
Pedra: What did they say? Do they intend to use our intel against the heads of their Army Command?

刻雷乌斯：正是如此，如果亲基金会的主和派政府上台，和平谈判的进程会比现在更加顺利。
Creius: You've guessed it. If their government manages to rein in the army, it'll be much easier to reach a ceasefire.

佩德拉：这种做法会让基金会被指控为颠覆国家政权，刻雷乌斯，你根本没有考虑过这个问题，对吗？
Pedra: But if anyone were to find out, we might be accused of interfering in their internal affairs. Have you considered that, Creius?

刻雷乌斯：但基金会并没有通过任何正式的方式与议会代表产生过接触，这位代表是私下造访安全区的。
Creius: Officially, the Foundation never made any contact with their government. All I did was have a candid conversation with a man about my concerns for his people.

他强调了一个关键的细节。
He stresses one key detail.

刻雷乌斯：对议会来说，他们也没有理由声张自己在与基金会合谋。
Creius: At any rate, they haven't any reason to expose their cooperation with us.

佩德拉：……这种做法在现阶段有太多的不确定性。
Pedra: There are simply too many uncertainties to consider.

惯于制衡的政治家捕捉到派系争端的意味。
The politician, accustomed to checks and balances, catches the implication of a factional dispute.

康斯坦丁：让主和派上台结束战争符合真实的历史进程，这与“鸽派”维护历史的诉求并不矛盾。
Constantine: History will only be restored to its rightful track if the peaceful factions on each side can rise to power and stop this war. This has been our goal from the beginning.

康斯坦丁：在这个时代中，构建亲基金会的外部政治环境符合我们的基本利益，我想，绝大多数委员都不会反对这一点。
Constantine: It doesn't matter which era we end up in. We always benefit from a political climate that is friendly to the Foundation. That's undeniable.

康斯坦丁：你的看法呢，佩德拉？
Constantine: What do you think, Pedra?

佩德拉：……
Pedra: ...

委员摘下眼镜，揉搓着眼球。
He removes his glasses and rubs his eyes.

佩德拉：……我也许能劝说“鸽派”在联合委员会上支持这个决定——给交战国的主和派提供重塑之手在控制军队的证据。
Pedra: I might be able to persuade some of the other Committee members to support this proposal. If we're certain of this course of action, then we'll have to provide intel to those seeking peace in all governments involved.

康斯坦丁：很好，我不希望看见派系斗争影响我们实现共同的目标。
Constantine: Good. No faction should put their own goals above those of the Foundation's.

康斯坦丁：少校的口供不够充分，基金会会增派调查员去其他地区搜集证据。刻雷乌斯，前线还有继续调查的价值吗？
Constantine: We'll need more to verify that major's statement. Send investigators to search other regions and report everything they see. Creius, continue your investigation. Follow every possible lead.

刻雷乌斯：当然。请放心，我的人很快就会找到更为确凿的证据。
Creius: Understood. We'll dig up whatever they have buried.

11TH-09 交汇地 / Paths Crossed

夜幕降临，并非一切事物都会在夜晚安歇。
Night falls, and creatures stir.

“哨兵”：……
Sentinel: ...

不远处，还有另一道影子藏匿在林间。在夜色的掩映下，也许他会被当作一根枯瘦的树干。
Not far away, there is another shadow hiding in the forest. Under the cover of night, perhaps he would be taken for a withered tree trunk.

但石像鬼本就属于黑夜，他们很轻松地在晦暗的环境中辨认出彼此。
But Gargoyles belong to the night. They recognize one another with ease in the dimness.

？？？：一个被视为有罪的人死在你的枪口之下，他未经审判，也不曾获得忏悔的机会。
???: A man is proclaimed guilty, and for this he is condemned to death, denied even the justice of a trial. His execution came as a wind, silencing him ere he might utter a word of repentance.

？？？：扣下扳机的人，可以被称作是正义的吗？
???: And this thou wouldst call righteousness?

“哨兵”：别来烦我，拉蒂斯。
Sentinel: Leave me be, Ladislas.

她轻而易举地把沉重的提问扔在地上。
She shrugs the heavy question off.

拉蒂斯：难道你真的从来不思考自己的所作所为？以杀戮中止杀戮就是你的正义之路？
Ladislas: Hast thou reflected on thine actions? Meeting eye for eye and tooth for tooth. Is it justice or vengeance still?

“哨兵”：你问错了问题，我不在乎正义。你可以随意把任何罪责加在我身上。
Sentinel: Do you think so little of me? That I would call it "justice" even were it not so? Blame me then, cousin. Damn and condemn me. I care not.

拉蒂斯：我并非要加重你的负担，而是不想让你继续被引诱上堕落的道路——我在乎的是你的灵魂，堂亲。
Ladislas: Never would I damn thee, cousin. For it is thy soul for which I am most concerned. I fear it doth wither with every act of malice.

拉蒂斯：我们是流淌着恶魔之血的族裔，即使已经历经千余年的苦修，仍然无法彻底涤净血液中的污秽。
Ladislas: Hark and listen well. Dost thou forget the nature of our unholy ancestry? We art the kin of demons. A thousand years hence, and their malevolence yet floweth thickened in our veins, and their whispers pricketh still our ears in the silence.

“哨兵”：回答我一个问题，一万人的死亡和十万人的死亡相比，哪一个更好？
Sentinel: Then answer me this question, dear cousin. You stand before the scales of a balance. On one pan, the lives of ten men, and on the other, a hundred. If you had the power to shift its weight to save the many, would you?

拉蒂斯：这个问题太过亵渎——难道……你真的在听取它的声音？
Ladislas: A question that is heavy-laced with blasphemies. Hast thou already bent thine ear to the devils' lies?

“哨兵”：你必须二选其一，否则我们的谈话无法继续。
Sentinel: Answer me, cousin. Elsewise, there is nothing more that needs be said.

拉蒂斯眉头紧蹙，他低下头，以默祷来化解涌上鼻腔的哀苦。
Ladislas furrows his brow and lowers his head, lips motioning the words of a prayer.

“哨兵”：在战争之中，你会面对无数比这更加痛苦的选择，而你甚至不敢背负回答这个问题的负担。
Sentinel: Silence? Are you truly so naive? The scales are lain far heavier for those in the throes of war, yet you have not even the courage to answer a simple question. I'm afraid you have mistaken your weakness for virtue.

“哨兵”：回教堂去吧，拉蒂斯。你有更适合自己的工作。
Sentinel: Go back to the monastery, Ladislas. This is war, red in tooth and claw, and your heart proves too quick to kindle.

拉蒂斯哀叹着消失在夜色中，如同阴影融于黑夜。
Ladislas vanishes into the dark with a sigh, his form melting into the night.

石像鬼士兵靠上树干以寻求短暂的休憩。从四肢末端开始，石化如浪潮般覆满全身。
The Gargoyle soldier leans against a tree for a brief rest. In the crook of its branches, she begins to slowly turn to stone.

你又在和他吵架了。
You are again at odds, it seems.

耳中有轻柔的声音响起，而她身旁并无第二人。
A voice rings in her ears. It speaks without a source, coming from neither place nor person.

“哨兵”：他总是这样。
Sentinel: 'Twas not a battle I sought.

拉蒂斯的学识比我们要多，如同你的胆量比我们两个人加起来都要大。
Our cousin is more learned than either of we two, but he lacks in courage compared to thee—most daring of us all.

“哨兵”：我不否认。但这对于现状并无助益。
Sentinel: I do not deny his learnedness. But there are neither letters nor prose that might aid my mission.

……可我也害怕有一天悔恨会将你压倒，就像，我也害怕你会突然死去……
Thou burnest too short a wick, and the flames of perdition rise to meet thee. I fear for thee, Marie. That thou go forth to a battle that will consume thee, whether in defeat or in triumph.

马塞尔，安托万，还有拒绝入伍的伊冯娜……他们答应过我，但是再也没有出现过……
Massel, Anthoine, and Yvonne ... They once promised to return as thou didst. Yet they fell all the same, each after the last. Yvonne was taken before she had even tasted battle.

“哨兵”：如果我活下来，或许会有悔恨的那一天，但不能是现在。
Sentinel: Let remorse consume me if it must. But God willing, I will see the end of this war first. Ere then, the fear of regret will not stay me.

“哨兵”：……绝不能是现在。
Sentinel: Not now.

“哨兵”：也许是在和平最终降临的那一天，到那时……你会回来吧？
Sentinel: And perhaps, on that day when peace finally comes, you will return to us?

声音在凌乱的风中消散了，她知道，这个夜晚它将不会再出现。
The voice vanishes in the night's breeze. She would not hear it again this night.

“哨兵”：……
Sentinel: ...

休憩宣告结束。士兵拾起武器，向线索指引的下一个目的地走去。
She shakes off the scales of stone and resumes the march toward her next lead.

帕拉维扬将一张周边地区的地图平铺在桌面上。
Paravyan lays out a local strategic map over the table.

刻雷乌斯拿起数枚子弹，将第一颗放在地图上标记为蒙佩的点，随后将剩余的子弹攥在手心里。
Creius picks up a handful of bullets, placing the first on Montpaix.

刻雷乌斯：艾伯哈特后续回忆起了一些与重塑之手有关的地点，但信息很模糊，我们应该尽快开展实地调查。
Creius: Major Braun was able to recall some of the locations that may have been used by the Manus. His coordinates aren't what anyone would call precise, so we'd best start searching ASAP.

刻雷乌斯：切斯特，你去检查这片林区，卡斯帕会在目标地点外围接应你。
Creius: Chester, you'll take the forest. Caspa will be expecting you on the edge.

一颗子弹被立在一片被描绘为森林的地点。
One bullet stands upright on a spot marked as forest.

调查员Ⅰ：我这就去找他。
Investigator I: On it.

刻雷乌斯：卡米拉，李，河道沿线交给你们。
Creius: Camila, Lee, you'll search from here and move along the river.

调查员Ⅱ：我们很快就回。
Investigator II: Will get it done, sir.

每下达一道指令，就有一颗新的子弹被立在桌面上。
Each new order is marked by another round placed upright on the table.

刻雷乌斯：查尔斯，阿曼达，你们两个一起去侦查299高地，这需要经过无人区。提前向前线军队表明身份，避开火力。
Creius: Charles, Amanda, you're on Hill 299. You'll need to cross no man's land to get there. Make sure you establish your identity with both sides in advance to avoid friendly fire.

调查员们：了解。
Investigators: Understood.

……
...

原本拥挤的房间内，人员逐渐走空。桌面上只剩下最后一颗弹壳。
The crowded room empties order by order, bullet by bullet, until only the last round remains.

刻雷乌斯：帕拉维扬。
Creius: Paravyan.

“警官”：在。
"Officer": Yes, sir.

刻雷乌斯：农庄交给你。另外，把玛尔纱带上，她精通战斗和急救，你们可以互相掩护。
Creius: I want you on this village. Take Marsha with you. She's a skilled combatant as well as a medic. You can count on each other.

“警官”：明白。
"Officer": Yes, sir.

帕拉维扬离开了房间，但此刻还有最后一个没有被分配任何任务的人。
Paravyan exits, leaving one person remaining without orders.

年轻士兵睁大眼与长官对视，努力掩饰内心的庆幸与雀跃。
The young soldier locks eyes with her superior, an unspoken relief written on her face.

梅蕾尔：……也就是说，我留在蒙佩待命就好了，对吗？
Merel: So, does that mean I'll remain on standby in Montpaix?

刻雷乌斯：如果有重塑之手乘隙进攻蒙佩，你要负责守卫。
Creius: Yes. I need someone coordinating the defense of this town should the Manus attack.

梅蕾尔：啊……啊？
Merel: Oh. Uhm ...

年轻士兵垂下头颅，难过之情溢于言表。
Relief turns into dread.

“警官”：就是这里了？
"Officer": Is this it?

玛尔纱：应该没错，下车吧。
Marsha: I believe so. Let's get on with it.

村庄被一片繁茂的原野环绕。战争爆发前，这里的居民应该过着富庶而安宁的生活。
The village around them still carries the signs of lush wilderness and gentle fields. A place of abundance and safety, once.

“警官”：我走前面。
"Officer": Watch my six.

二人取出武器，从侧面进入村庄。
The two draw weapons and enter from the side.

调查者们没有遭到任何阻拦，如果不是得到了情报的指示，他们只会把这里当成一座孤零零的废墟。
The investigators are not stopped in any way, and if they hadn't been instructed to do so, they would have just treated this place as another forgotten remnant of better days.

玛尔纱：一个人也没有……真是一场灾难。
Marsha: This place is empty. It's heartbreaking to see it so quiet.

“警官”：时间还早，可以逐一检查一下房屋。
"Officer": We're ahead of schedule. Let's start by checking the houses one by one.

玛尔纱：没问题。
Marsha: Good.

玛尔纱：……找到什么了吗？
Marsha: Find anything?

“警官”：没有，我在一个房间里发现了一些写着字的纸张，但应该只是当地人没有寄出去的信件。
"Officer": Only some letters I can't read. I guess they didn't have time to post them before they left.

玛尔纱：我在一间地下室找到了一些枪械，不过是早就生锈的猎枪，火药也已经受潮。
Marsha: There were some small arms in the basement, all of them older models and rusty. The ammo was damp.

玛尔纱神情凝重地盯着一座空空如也的仓库。
Marsha holds her gaze on an empty warehouse.

玛尔纱：这里已经被废弃了很久，而且经历过掠夺。村子里的东西基本没有价值，或者不太好搬走。
Marsha: This place had to have been looted more than a few times. The only valuables left are the ones too heavy to move.

“警官”：那对重塑之手来说，这里有什么价值呢？
"Officer": So, basically, there's nothing here. What do the Manus want it for?

玛尔纱沮丧地摇摇头。
She shakes her head in frustration.

玛尔纱：我没有完整接受过调查员的训练，基金会很快就把我派到蒙佩来了。
Marsha: I was rushed through the investigator training before being sent to Montpaix.

玛尔纱：也许我会漏掉一些细节。
Marsha: It's possible I missed something.

青年想要给予宽慰，展露的笑容却显得有些生涩。
The young man tries to console her, but his smile is stiff.

“警官”：这一切都会逐渐熟练起来的，刻雷乌斯长官对我说，实战才是最好的训练。
"Officer": Don't worry. You're doing fine. Mr. Creius always says training is no match for experience.

“警官”：或许，这就像“乌鸫”——也就是梅蕾尔，你在蒙佩见过她的。
"Officer": Blackbird is a prime example, I mean Merel. You met her back in Montpaix.

“警官”：虽然她也接受过训练，但始终没能适应战争。其实我知道，她连在南极的时候都一直担惊受怕的。
"Officer": She's been through all the training the Foundation could throw at her, but she still isn't ready for the battlefield. I probably shouldn't say, but she nearly went mental during the Antarctic operation.

玛尔纱：战场的确十分残酷……三个星期的普通军事训练，是无法让人成为一名真正的士兵的。
Marsha: The battlefield is crueler than ordinary people can imagine. A few weeks of military training just isn't enough.

帕拉维扬顺着话题，试探性地提出了一个自己关心了很久的问题。
Paravyan follows the topic and broaches a question he's long been holding back.

“警官”：我听说……骑士团有一套独特的传统神秘术训练方法？
"Officer": So, what's your deal? I know you came from some Order with special arcane training.

“警官”：恐惧、痛苦，甚至是同理心，都能通过某种方法“冻结”起来，直到战斗结束之后再释放。
"Officer": You can "freeze" your fear and pain—emotional stuff—during battle until you feel safe?

“警官”：——这么说对吗？
"Officer": I only skimmed through the briefing. Is that right?

玛尔纱：差不太远了。但我想，现在不太适合谈这些。
Marsha: It's more complicated than that. But I'm not sure I'd like to get into it now.

“警官”：抱歉——我明白了。
"Officer": Yeah, sure. Sorry.

玛尔纱：不，没事……我们还漏掉了哪些地方吗？
Marsha: No need to apologize. Just ... do you think we missed anything?

“警官”：——让我想想……
"Officer": Well, let's take a minute.

“警官”：他们藏起来的东西会是什么呢？——枪械、化学武器、作战计划，还是某些不属于这个时代的装备？
"Officer": What could they even possibly hide here? Arms, chemical weapons, secret files, or gear smuggled back from the future?

玛尔纱：我对重塑之手的了解不太多，也不清楚你们所说的其他时代……
Marsha: I don't know much about Manus Vindictae or the future.

刺耳的爆裂声在耳畔炸响，一颗飞溅的石子在她的盔甲上敲出尖锐的声音。
There's a sudden ear-splitting pop, followed by a thundering explosion as rocks spatter across her armor.

玛尔纱：帕拉维扬——！
Marsha: Incoming!

“警官”：——装甲车，村庄西北面，200米！找掩护！
"Officer": Armored vehicle, 200 meters northwest of the village! Take cover!

11TH-10 不洁之路 / Devil's Work

装甲车的残骸中喷涌出浓烈刺鼻的烟雾。
Thick, acrid smoke billows from the wreckage of the armored vehicle.

玛尔纱：——咳咳。
Marsha: *cough*

玛尔纱从一堆碎石中撑起身子，肩头出现了轻微的撕裂感。
Marsha braces herself on a pile of debris, all at once letting herself feel the sharp tearing pain in her shoulder.

玛尔纱：结束了……似乎是谁帮了我们……
Marsha: It's over. Someone helped us.

玛尔纱：帕……帕拉维扬，你还好吗？
Marsha: Pa ... Paravyan, are you alright?

她望向道路另一头，不远处，青年被压在一块沉重的屋梁之下。
She looks across the road. Just ahead, the young man is pinned under a heavy beam.

“警官”：不要乱动，玛尔纱——你的伤口还在流血。
"Officer": Stay put, Marsha. You're bleeding.

“警官”：我马上——马上就能出来。
"Officer": I can ... I can get myself out.

帕拉维扬费尽全身力气，也无法让粗大的木料移动半分。
Paravyan strains with all his strength but can't move the timber an inch.

玛尔纱：敌方……已无威胁，我可以来……帮你。
Marsha: We're all clear. Let me help you.

“警官”：没关系，我只是被压住了。你先别动——你的头和肩膀还在流血！
"Officer": Don't fuss over me. It's just a bit of wood. You need to stay put. Your head and shoulder are bleeding!

玛尔纱：嗯？我……受伤了吗？
Marsha: What? Am I hurt?

玛尔纱摇摇晃晃地站起身来。
Marsha staggers to her feet.

玛尔纱：唉，有些头晕，不会吧——
Marsha: Ugh, I'm feeling faint.

她伸手摸向自己的头顶。
She reaches for the top of her head.

玛尔纱：噢……果然，我在……我在流血——糟了，应该留下一点疼痛感……
Marsha: It seems you're right. I'm bleeding profusely from several wounds. That's what I get for suppressing all my pain.

玛尔纱：也许是一个……弹……弹片——没有关系，很快就能恢复……
Marsha: Ah so, just a little shrapnel. Nothing too serious.

“警官”：先为自己止血，玛尔纱。
"Officer": Treat your wounds first, Marsha.

玛尔纱：……好。
Marsha: Understood.

受伤的骑士坐在一块倒塌的墙砖上，低垂着眼，看向自己脚尖的那一小块地方。
She leans back on a pile of fallen bricks, her head swaying until it slumps.

玛尔纱：……我休息一会就好了。
Marsha: I'll be alright. I just need a little rest.

……
...

玛尔纱：……？
Marsha: ...?

她看见一双靴子。
Her gaze lifts up to a pair of boots.

接着，是一柄硕大的反坦克步枪。
Then, the sizeable barrel of an anti-tank rifle.

玛尔纱：这是——
Marsha: Who ...

她抬起头。
She looks up.

“哨兵”：……
Sentinel: ...

玛尔纱：……是你…………
Marsha: You again ...

她挣扎着想要站起来。
She struggles to her feet.

“哨兵”：坐好。
Sentinel: Sit.

玛尔纱：哦……
Marsha: Um ...

她跌落回去，仰着头，表情有些呆滞。
Her legs buckle, leaving her braced up against the debris.

玛尔纱：是你……救了我们，谢谢。
Marsha: You saved us. Thank you.

“哨兵”：为什么在这里。
Sentinel: What brought you here?

玛尔纱：重塑之手……我们在寻找踪迹……
Marsha: Collecting intel on Manus Vindictae.

“哨兵”：你知道自己会面对什么危险吗？
Sentinel: Have you no reckoning on the danger in this place?

玛尔纱：……
Marsha: ...

她摇晃着脑袋。
Marsha shakes her head.

“哨兵”：疯了。
简直就是来送死。
Sentinel: Idiot. You might well have breathed your last in that battle.

？？？：别缠着我！
???: Let go!

“哨兵”：——？
Sentinel: ...?

玛尔纱：还有人？
Marsha: Who's out there?

“哨兵”转过身，在装甲车留下的浓烟后看见一道黑影。
Sentinel turns, spotting a figure emerging from the armored vehicle's smoking shell.

？？？：放开——放开！你会害死我的！
???: Let me go! You're gonna get me killed!

在他脚边，躺着一名和他穿着相同制服的伤员。
At his feet lies a wounded soldier in the same black uniform.

伤员：不——施特林……求求你——
Wounded Soldier: No! Sterling ... Please ...

伤员：——！
Wounded Soldier: ...!

伤员被杀死在原地，不再哀嚎。施特林抬起满是血丝的眼睛，与摧毁了坦克的狙击手对上目光。
The wounded man's cries are cut short. Sterling turns two manic bloodshot eyes toward the advancing sniper.

施特林：该死的！
Sterling: F**k!

“哨兵”：……
Sentinel: ...

一颗子弹击中石像鬼的腹部。中弹者身躯轻颤，弹着点崩出一缕伴着碎石的烟尘，却没有流出鲜血。
A bullet strikes the Gargoyle clean through her abdomen, but it draws no blood. Instead, chips of stony debris fall out from the wound.

施特林：妈的——他妈的，怪物！
Sterling: What the hell? You goddamn monster!

施特林转过身，向着村庄外亡命奔逃。
The man's eyes go wider still as he turns to flee.

“哨兵”：呵。
Sentinel: Heh.

“哨兵”没有急于追逐，她先是走向帕拉维扬，掀开压住他的屋梁。
She does not give chase. She walks to Paravyan and lifts the beam from his body.

“警官”：咳……咳咳——
"Officer": *cough*

“警官”：……谢谢你，请问我该怎么……称呼？
"Officer": Thanks. Who are you? Are you with the Foundation?

青年抬起头，看见浓重的阴云在女人的眉间凑集。
The young man finds his answer in her grim and stony face.

“哨兵”：你留下来，替玛尔纱止血。
Sentinel: Stay here and tend to your comrade.

“哨兵”：我去解决重塑之手。
Sentinel: I will tend to our enemies.

施特林：呼……呼！
Sterling: *panting*

欧根：只有我们逃——逃出来了吗？科尔腾呢，你没有把他带出来？
Eugen: Are we the only ones left? Where's Kolten?

施特林：别管他！他死了！
Sterling: Dead! Now get the lead out and run!

施特林：她出现了，她来了——朝她开枪！欧根！
Sterling: She's coming at us! She's coming! Shoot her, Eugen, shoot her!

欧根：我——我看不见她——我们到底在往哪里跑？！
Eugen: I ... I can't see her. Where are we running?

施特林：前面有座风车，我们躲进去截住她——别停下，蠢猪！
Sterling: Look, there's an old mill ahead! We'll regroup there to intercept her—keep running, you idiot!

欧根：我看见她了，看见她了——
Eugen: I see her now. She's there.

欧根：去……去死！
Eugen: Die!

欧根：呃——！
Eugen: Ugh!

施特林：白痴……白痴！
Sterling: You idiot!

施特林：啊……啊啊——！我的手——
Sterling: Ugh. Ahhhh! My hand!

逃亡者距离风车的掩护只有数步之遥。
An old windmill lies just ahead—refuge, in his panicked mind.

施特林：……呃——嗬……嗬……
Sterling: Urgh ... Huff ...

“哨兵”：你无路可走了。
Sentinel: For the wicked flee, and I pursueth.

施特林：——！
Sterling: ...!

子弹射向她的肩膀，再次无力地弹开。
Another bullet strikes her shoulder and glances off in another spray of stone.

施特林：为什么，杀不死你——你这个……怪物、恶魔……
Sterling: Why won't you die? You devil!

“哨兵”：我？
Sentinel: A devil, you call me?

“哨兵”：那你又是什么？
Sentinel: What are you, then?

难道他们不是我们的兄弟、姐妹吗？
What hast thou done? The voice of thy brother's blood crieth unto me from the ground.

“哨兵”：图谋奸恶，播散纷争——你又是什么呢？
Sentinel: You who discord between nations and plot schemes for the undoing of man. Who then is your master?

她逼近一步。
She steps closer.

“哨兵”：也许我们没有多大区别。所以，我会给你忏悔的机会。
Sentinel: For if you do the devil's work, are you not a devil like me? I pity you. Repent and you may yet find mercy in the judgment of the Lord.

土地从我们的手中接受亲族的血。
And now art thou cursed from the earth,

施特林：退、退后——！
Sterling: What the hell do you want? Back off!

“哨兵”：……我不是为了杀戮而来。施特林是你的名字，对吗？
Sentinel: Sterling, isn't it? You need not fear me. You still have time.

施特林：啊啊啊——！
Sterling: Ahhhhh!

从现在起，你要受到永远的诅咒。
Which hath opened her mouth to receive thy brother's blood from thy hand.

“哨兵”：可你必须要先忏悔……告诉我……
Sentinel: Repent, and you may yet be saved. Speak.

施特林：你在说什么——你想干什么？！
Sterling: What are you talking about? What do you want from me?

土地不再为我们效力。
When thou tillest the ground, it shall not henceforth yield unto thee her strength.

“哨兵”：咳……
Sentinel: *coughing*

施特林：……
Sterling: ...

终于，追随重塑之手的士兵绝望地跪倒在地。
The soldier tumbles to the ground; as he scrambles, he launches into a desperate prayer.

“哨兵”：告诉我……重塑之手究竟为何想要世界陷入——战火。
Sentinel: Answer me. For what purpose does Manus Vindictae drive the world to war and ruin?

施特林：复苏之母，引导之人……
Sterling: Mother of Resurrection, the Guiding One ...

“哨兵”：……？
Sentinel: ...?

怪异的名讳。
The prayer follows a pattern she knows by heart, yet the name he speaks is strange.

施特林：……请求您垂怜卑微的仆从，我向您祈求奇迹，赐我永恒的生命——
Sterling: Please have mercy on your humble servant. I pray for a miracle—a ladder into your eternal kingdom.

施特林：我将绝望的生命……献与您……永恒的国度，美好的时代——
Sterling: I hereby offer my life to you. Please save me from desperation and take me to the golden era.

我们终身操劳，终生流离飘荡在世上……
A fugitive and a vagabond shalt thou be in the earth.

他将最后一颗子弹留给了自己。
He saves the last bullet for himself.

“哨兵”：——！
Sentinel: ...!

……
...

“哨兵”：……
Sentinel: ...

“哨兵”：无可救药的……
Sentinel: A blasphemer to the end.

玛尔纱：等等——
Marsha: Ms. Sentinel.

玛尔纱：——哨兵！
Marsha: Ms. Sentinel!

11TH-11 血污与伤痕 / Wounds and Scars

上尉：上刺刀！
Captain: Fix bayonets!

上尉：为了胜利！
Captain: For Victory!

上尉：跑起来——冲锋！
Captain: Charge!

上尉：他妈的，骑士团杀回来了。
Captain: Damn! Their cavalry's returned!

上尉：守住战壕——不准后退！我会亲自枪毙逃兵。
Captain: Hold the line! I'll shoot any coward that runs!

上尉：你是圣路连的神秘学家？那就快去，干掉那怪物！
Captain: You, you're from the Arcane Support Company? Go get that monster!

骑士团士兵：——
Knight: ...

她不记得自己是怎么做到的——也许是反扑的敌军也太过劳累，也许是受到上天的眷顾。
She can't remember how she did it—perhaps her enemies were as exhausted as she was, or perhaps it was just the devil's luck.

圣路连士兵：呃——
Arcane Support Soldier: Ugh!

在几乎是出自本能的搏斗之后，她终于将身披沉重甲胄的敌人抵在身下。
Struggling, fighting purely by instinct, she holds her heavily armored foe at bay.

骑士团士兵：……咳。
Knight: *cough*

……战斗僵持在最后一刻，只差最后一厘米的距离。抵抗者紧紧扣住刺刀的双手没有护具保护，此刻血流不止。
Time crawls to a standstill; her bayonet is stopped mere centimeters from her foe's throat by two armored fists.

……你还记得，在很小的时候，我们为争夺一棵野外的苹果树而吵了起来。
Dost thou recall when once, in our youth, we fought over an apple tree?

圣路连士兵：松手，该死的！
Arcane Support Soldier: Let go of me!

骑士团士兵：不——
Knight: No, damn it!

你想砍下一些枝条，尝尝用果木烤出来的鸡肉是什么味道。
Thou wished to cut its wood and make us a fire to roast a chicken.

骑士团士兵：呃……
Knight: Umm ...

而我隐隐觉得它是一棵该结果的树，第二年一定会有许多味道奇特的野苹果。
But I rebuked thee. For I believed the tree would bear fruit, and it would be the sweeter bounty of the two.

圣路连士兵：嗬……嗬……
Arcane Support Soldier: *panting*

你钻进浆果丛，朝我扔出几颗树莓。你说要保卫你的烤鸡，而我也捡起你扔过来的果子当作武器。
Thou didst find a bush with over-ripened berries and hurled them at me, crying that they should serve as my supper, while the chicken would be for thee alone. And I retaliated in kind.

圣路连士兵：可是……！
Arcane Support Soldier: But ...!

最后，我们浑身都是紫色与红色的浆果汁。
Ere long, we were painted red with juice.

骑士团士兵：嘶——
Knight: Ah!

你说，这真是一场血战，然后放下了手中最后的果子，举手投降……过去总是有这样快乐的日子。
"What a bloody melee we fight!" We laughed as we laid down our arms. What fun we had that day.

圣路连士兵：不——我……不想——
Arcane Support Soldier: No. I don't want to ...

但人为了争夺什么，才必须要把另一个人杀死……那也许是比苹果树更重要的东西，可是……
But the battle thou fightest now shall not end in the gentle smears of red berries. What drives humanity to war? Could it be so different from what drove us to it beneath that apple tree?

骑士团士兵：……
Knight: ...

我无法想象战争是什么样子，无法想象两百万人抱着杀死对方的心冲向彼此。
I dare not imagine how a slaughter that has claimed the lives of millions could be waged for so small a cause.

……我们是否真的能凭借仇恨，就将素不相识的人置于死地？
That we should be brought to bloodshed, driven only by the fear of those whom we were taught to despise.

可说到底，这场战争，究竟是为了争夺什么？
What immortal hand or eye could frame the cause behind these deadly ends?

你比我更勇敢，玛丽，永远知道自己在做什么，从不心生疑虑。那么，你能不能告诉我……
Thou art more courageous than I, Marie. Never hast thou doubted thy conviction. So tell me, I pray ...

如果命运皆有其意义……
Is there some purpose in the war they now fight?

那一个人杀死另一个人的意义究竟是什么？
For I see no divine meaning to be found in this killing and dying.

“哨兵”：……
Sentinel: ...

伤口的疼痛还在延续——幸运的是，小口径的手枪弹不至于给岩石化的身体留下致命伤口。
Small-caliber rounds pose no real threat to her rocky exterior, but that does little to reduce the pain.

但距离枪伤完全愈合，仍然需要不少时间。
And healing comes slowly.

“哨兵”：——艾格尼丝？
Sentinel: Agnès?

没有得到回应，但她已经习惯了。她站起来，才发现自己并非孤身一人。
No response. That was expected. But what she had not expected was the next voice.

玛尔纱：你在叫谁？
Marsha: Who's Agnès?

“哨兵”：……别在意。你在这里做什么？
Sentinel: She ... Matters not. But what brings you here?

玛尔纱：我得把你带到安全的地方。帕拉维扬——就是和我一起来的那个年轻人，留在村庄里搜查线索。
Marsha: I'm taking you somewhere safe. Paravyan—that young man who came with me—is back at the village. He'll continue with our search.

玛尔纱：至于我……和你一样，没那么容易死。
Marsha: Before you ask, I'm doing fine. Like you, I'm made of sterner stuff.

骑士活动了一下手臂，从她的动作来看，确实并无大碍。
She rotates her arm, looking as if her wounds had all but disappeared.

玛尔纱：我粗略检查了一下你的伤口，可我不太明白怎么处理……石像鬼的伤口，那里都是一些碎石块。
Marsha: I checked over your wounds, but I have no earthly idea what to do with this gravel. I know how to treat flesh, not stone.

玛尔纱：这对你来说应该不是太严重的问题，对吧？
Marsha: But that wound won't be a problem for you, will it?

“哨兵”：对……呃——
Sentinel: No. Ugh ...

即使肉体的疼痛可以忍受，惨烈梦境带来的精神痛苦仍然会令她忍不住皱眉。
Her physical pain is bearable. But the lingering echoes of her nightmare cause her to grit her teeth.

玛尔纱：很糟糕的梦？
Marsha: Were you dreaming? It seemed like a nightmare.

“哨兵”：……
Sentinel: ...

仍然受噩梦困扰的人双眼直直地看向前方。战地医生对这种精神上的苦楚无能为力。
She locks her stare forward and away. There's field dressing for the wounds that truly pain her.

玛尔纱：我不知道这样能不能让你好过一些……
Marsha: I don't know if this will help.

她干脆利落地脱下手套，将双手摊开在胸前。
She removes her gloves. It's a brisk and almost tender motion,

一道刺目的刀痕横贯掌心。
revealing deep slashing cuts across her palms.

“哨兵”：——！
Sentinel: ...!

“哨兵”：不，难道……真的是你——
Sentinel: Could it be ... Are you ...

玛尔纱：……是的，我们之间的战争已经结束了，你我不再是敌人。
Marsha: I am. But that battle is long over. You and I are no longer enemies.

殊死相搏的叫喊声汇聚成一阵嗡鸣。
The howls of their deadly melee still ring in her ears.

“哨兵”：玛尔纱……那是一场——毫无意义的自相残杀……
Sentinel: It was a senseless fight. I hurt you.

玛尔纱：这不是我们任何人的错。
Marsha: It wasn't your fault.

玛尔纱：其实，正因为有那场战斗，我才能被认定为阵亡——后来我想办法活了下来。
Marsha: In fact, I thank you for it. They thought I died fighting you—I used that as my opportunity to leave.

玛尔纱：我加入了一支民间组建的无国界救援队，之后，是一场重塑之手的袭击……最后，我被一支基金会小队救下。
Marsha: For some time after that, I was with an international rescue team. We came under attack by the Manus for our efforts, but the Foundation intervened.

“哨兵”：……你记得我？
Sentinel: Wait, then you remember me?

玛尔纱平静地点头，有如在病床前安抚伤员，一切并无大碍。
Marsha nods, a gentle, graceful motion, carrying the reassurance of a doctor at her patient's bedside.

玛尔纱：毕竟你不像我一样把整张脸都遮住了呀。
Marsha: And you didn't. I was wearing a helmet. But you don't have a face one forgets.

“哨兵”：……
Sentinel: ...

玛丽安娜：……玛丽安娜。
Sentinel: Marianne.

玛尔纱：嗯？
Marsha: Hm?

玛尔纱：……哦，我明白了。
Marsha: Oh, that's your name?

玛尔纱：玛丽安……安娜。
Marsha: Marianne. It's lovely.

她带着蹩脚的口音，重复着这个名字。
She repeats it, stressing the syllables as if to remember it.

玛丽安娜：基金会对重塑之手了解多少？
Sentinel: Tell me, then, what do you know about Manus Vindictae?

玛尔纱：他们是一支由纯血神秘学家组成的秘密团体，企图摧毁人类和神秘学家共同组成的社会。
Marsha: They are a secret organization open to only pure-blooded arcanists. Simply put, their goal is to cause as much chaos as possible and eventually destroy all of human society.

玛丽安娜：……复苏之母是他们敬奉的神灵吗？
Sentinel: And this "Mother of Resurrection" is like a god to them?

玛尔纱：没错，这个名字是阿尔卡纳的称谓之一。祂曾被杀死过一次，却通过某种仪式再次复活。
Marsha: Something like that, yes. She died once, but they managed to resurrect her through some awful ritual.

玛丽安娜：——复活？
Sentinel: A resurrected madwoman?

她的不屑演化为憎恶。她五指紧握，仿佛在空气中抓住了什么东西。
Her disdain curdles into hatred. Fingers clench, like she's trying to crush something in midair.

玛丽安娜：……可耻的模仿者。
Sentinel: Then she is a false prophet, an imposter of the true resurrection.

玛尔纱抓住机会，向她凑得更近一些。
Marsha seizes the opportunity to move to her side.

玛尔纱：基金会和重塑之手之间已经经历了相当漫长的战争——可能比这场大战本身还要久。
Marsha: The war between the Foundation and Manus Vindictae has lasted ages—longer, even, than this war.

玛尔纱：你和我们有一样的目标，而且此时此刻，你掌握的情报会给基金会带来巨大的帮助。
Marsha: You and the Foundation share the same goals, and the intelligence you gathered may prove crucial for us.

玛尔纱：如果你愿意共享关于重塑之手的情报，基金会也许能在一周之内促成停火，请你认真考虑这个可能性。
Marsha: If you would be willing to share it, we may be able to reach a truce sooner. So, please mull it over.

石像鬼低下头，相当粗略地对手中的步枪做了一番检查。
Sentinel bows her head, giving her rifle a rough once-over.

她擦去一些溅入枪机结构中的血液和泥土，随后向弹仓中塞入几颗新的子弹。
She wipes away some of the blood and dirt that cakes the receiver, then one by one slots new rounds into its magazine.

玛丽安娜：……1918年，我开始追查重塑之手的线索。人员、物品、信件……前线散落着各式各样的信息。
Sentinel: My search into Manus Vindictae began at the turn of 1918. Their documents, personal belongings, letters ... I sought and scrounged for every clue that might be found.

玛丽安娜：我得知他们不加区分地为交战双方提供援助，出于我不理解的目的，用尽一切手段延续这场战争。
Sentinel: From these, I learned of their mission to prolong this bloodshed, supplying both sides with arms of dreadful artifice. Then as now, I still do not understand why.

玛丽安娜：最初，我以为政府会重视重塑之手的阴谋，可无论是匿名举报信还是公开抗议，最终都毫无作用。
Sentinel: I brought my evidence before the powers of my nation, but they cared not. So, I spoke out against them, still hoping they might awaken to this madness.

玛丽安娜：所有信件和出版物都会遭受严格审查，任何谈论和平与重塑之手的信息都不允许出现。
Sentinel: But my words went unheeded. Worse, they turned against me, hiding even the very name of Manus Vindicate from all their publications and letters.

玛丽安娜：这是战争的第六年，报纸上唯一会出现的内容，就是鼓动开战时还只有十二岁的孩子上前线。
Sentinel: There is no longer any truth in the words they print; only lies meant to stir the pride of youth to deadly, pointless slaughter ... youths who were but children when the war began.

玛丽安娜：……我唯一能做的只有尽可能地消灭这些战争的煽动者。
Sentinel: That is why I have turned to this—to killing the ones who incited this war. It was the only choice I had left.

玛丽安娜：当我经历我所说的这一切的时候，基金会又在哪里？
Sentinel: Perhaps it has all been for naught, but at least I have put deeds to words. What has the Foundation done?

面对这番控诉，基金会职员顿时陷入手足无措的境地。
The accusation forces her into a stammering defense.

玛尔纱：根、根据规定，我没有权限向基金会之外的人告知……某些信息。
Marsha: We have done more than you know. But I'm not authorized to tell you.

玛丽安娜：基金会不信任我，却让我无偿提供所有的情报。
Sentinel: You expect me to offer all I know to you, yet still withhold your trust.

玛尔纱：我确实没有想过这一点，对不起。如果你想要一场交易，我会……
Marsha: I'm sorry. No, I suppose that isn't fair of us. If there is anything we can offer in exchange to make a deal, I'll ...

辩驳的言语逐渐失去了力量。
But her efforts lose steam.

玛尔纱：……我会尽可能为你申请足够好的条件，但我不确定……
Marsha: I'll try my best to honor it. But I can't guarantee anything.

她安静下来，即将入冬的冷风在二人之间吹过。
A cold breeze cuts the stillness between them.

玛丽安娜缓慢地叹出一口气。
Sentinel lets out a slow and labored breath.

玛丽安娜：我不会和基金会合作，这不是一场交易。
Sentinel: I will give nothing to the Foundation, neither freely nor for any bargain.

玛尔纱：……
Marsha: ...

玛丽安娜：但是，我可以为你个人提供帮助。
Sentinel: But you, Marsha—you have my trust.

玛尔纱：——！
Marsha: ...!

骑士难掩内心的欣喜。
Marsha lights up at her patient's declaration.

玛丽安娜：——走吧，跟我来。
Sentinel: Follow me.

玛尔纱：好、好的！
Marsha: Oh. Of course!

11TH-12 破碎的尖拱 / A Fractured Sanctuary

佩德拉：装甲车？
Pedra: An armored vehicle?

刻雷乌斯：是。驾驶员是重塑之手的人，他们从军队里窃取了装备和资源。
Creius: The driver was a Manus. They're not just supplying the war anymore.

通讯另一头沉吟片刻，接着，属于“鹰派”党魁的声音从听筒中传出。
There's a pause before the Hawks' leader speaks through the receiver.

伊里内伊：——刻雷乌斯，你有什么猜想？
Irinei: What do you think that means, Creius?

显然，各派委员们正身处一室，共同听取前线的汇报。
Both sides are gathered in the same room, listening to the reports from the front lines.

刻雷乌斯无声地发出轻笑，语调却仍然保持着严肃。
Creius lets out a soft, rueful chuckle, though he does not let it betray the seriousness of his words.

刻雷乌斯：重塑之手也许组建了一支属于自己的军队。
Creius: That the Manus have decided to build themselves an army.

伊里内伊：我持相同看法。
Irinei: That seems likely.

伊里内伊：我们要为这种情况早做打算。芝诺主力目前仍在东边，如果西线有变，他们短时间内无法增员。
Irinei: In that case, we must prepare immediately for a response. Zeno's main force is still at the eastern front. They won't be able to reinforce us if anything happens here.

伊里内伊：基金会应当在西线招募一支属于自己的军队。
Irinei: The Foundation will need an army of its own.

佩德拉：这不可能。
Pedra: That's completely irresponsible.

稳重的声音打断了过于夸张的猜想。
A calm voice cuts through the speculation.

佩德拉：——扩充军队会向外投射紧张情绪，不符合我们的和平政策。
Pedra: It will only increase the tension on this front, and it directly violates our peace policy.

佩德拉：而且，重塑之手只接受纯血神秘学家，他们不可能真正拥有一支足以形成战斗力的军队。
Pedra: Manus Vindictae takes in only pure-blooded arcanists. That doesn't make for a large recruitment pool. It won't be much of an army, really.

佩德拉：神秘学家缺乏纪律和组织必备的理智，如果没有人类领导，他们注定无法成为一支真正的军队。
Pedra: To say nothing of the fact that they lack the organization or discipline that is needed for a true large-scale military operation. Armies need human leadership.

伊里内伊：你忽视了阿尔卡纳，佩德拉，你不知道祂会给信徒带来怎样的影响。
Irinei: You forgot to take Arcana into consideration, Pedra. You don't know what she can do to her followers with her new power.

伊里内伊：基金会需要一支新的军队，尽早组织力量对重塑之手发动袭击。这样一来，也许我们还有先发制人的机会。
Irinei: Whatever the case, we cannot take anything for granted. The Foundation will need the strength to defend itself from future attacks by the Manus. If we act quickly, we may even get ahead of things.

佩德拉：委员会绝不会同意如此不顾后果的策略——
Pedra: I'd like to see what the Committee will think of this plan. I hope they'll have a better grasp of the consequences.

伊里内伊：你根本看不清形势，佩德拉——
Irinei: You're not seeing the board, Pedra.

通讯器已经无法清晰地捕捉到两派领袖的争吵。
The communicator struggles to transmit the two leaders' heated exchange.

刻雷乌斯在另一头秉持着一贯顺从的沉默。
Creius, on the other end, stays quiet, professional, obedient.

等待未久，调停人接管了通讯。
Before long, the mediator takes over the line.

康斯坦丁：我们不排除爆发大规模冲突的可能，但是，在没有绝对可信的证据之前，委员会仍将维持原本的策略。
Constantine: We can't rule out the possibility of a large-scale conflict. However, the Committee will maintain its peace policy until we have reliable evidence.

刻雷乌斯：如果更坏的情况发生了呢？
Creius: And if the worst happens?

康斯坦丁：——整个时代都将化为战场。
Constantine: Then we'll do what we must to survive, even if that means igniting a worldwide war.

玛丽安娜：到了。
Sentinel: We have arrived.

玛尔纱：喔……
Marsha: I see ...

神秘术的余辉逐渐消散，一方宁静的避难所出现在林间空地中。
The glow of arcane skills fades as they approach, revealing their hidden sanctuary.

教堂的穹顶虽然已经倒塌，但雕饰繁复的主体外墙仍然屹立不倒。
It is or was an abbey, appropriately gothic, with ornate stone walls rising up to meet the air—its dome long collapsed.

玛尔纱：这座教堂……是本来就建造在这里的吗？
Marsha: This monastery ... It's not an arcane creation, is it?

玛丽安娜：嗯。石像鬼的神秘术在这片废墟上能发挥很好的效果。
Sentinel: No. It has only been enchanted with our arcane skill "Carthusians."

玛丽安娜：在“加尔都西”神秘术的保护下，教堂和石像鬼都不会被过路的人关注。
Sentinel: Beneath its protection, those that dwell here will go unnoticed by any who pass near.

石像鬼修士：……
Gargoyle Friar: ...

一位身穿修士长袍的石像鬼在草地上赤足行走，意识到访客的到来后，他从书本中抬起头。
A Gargoyle dressed in friar's robes walks barefoot on the grass. He looks up from his book to meet the new arrivals.

玛尔纱：你好，我是基金会的调查员玛尔纱。
Marsha: Greetings. I'm Marsha, Investigator of the St. Pavlov Foundation.

修士轻轻点头，笑容柔和而友善。他伸出一根手指，压在嘴唇上。
The friar nods, offering a smile soft and friendly, then extends a finger and presses it to his lips.

玛尔纱：这是……某种缄默修行吗？
Marsha: Oh, I see. Have you made a vow of silence?

“喀喀——”
"Kra-ka—"

尚未得到回答，骑士又被另一侧岩石碎裂的铿锵声所吸引。
The sound of breaking rock draws her eyes away.

玛尔纱：……？
Marsha: ...?

一扇破损的窄窗下，一座女性雕塑突然活动起来，石质的表面逐渐化为柔软的皮肤。
Beneath a broken narrow window, a stone statue of a woman begins to stir, its surface softening into flesh.

一位满面愁容的妇人出现在玛尔纱眼前，她以夸张的步态向玛丽安娜走去。
Her face is marked by twisted sorrow as she walks toward Sentinel with an exaggerated gait.

石像鬼妇人：玛丽，我的好侄女，你终于回来了！看看你都消瘦成什么样子了。
Female Gargoyle: Marie, my sweetie, thou hast returned to us again! But oh! Child, thou needest rest.

她二话不说，就将玛丽安娜死死搂在怀里，又在她的面颊上留下一个深刻的吻。
She just pulls Marianne into a tight embrace and plants a series of deep kisses on her cheeks.

玛丽安娜：……
Sentinel: ...

玛丽安娜已经习惯了这份沉重的亲族之爱，面不改色地接受了一切。
Sentinel endures the affection with as much grit as she did the bullets.

石像鬼妇人：这是你的朋友吗？
Female Gargoyle: And this is a friend?

妇人转而看向玛尔纱，眼角上更是聚了更多悲伤，几乎要流下泪来。
The woman turns to Marsha, her eyes now pooling with greater sadness.

石像鬼妇人：可怜……可怜的孩子！
Female Gargoyle: Oh, poor child.

她以无可抗拒的力量把骑士拉到自己身边，照例给了她一个令人窒息的拥抱。
The hug comes too quick to dodge and too sturdy to resist, pulling Marsha into a breathtaking embrace.

玛尔纱：唔——
Marsha: Ugh ...

一秒。两秒。三秒——
One second. Two seconds. Three seconds—

——她终于挣脱热情的待客之道。玛尔纱猛吸一口新鲜空气，青草的芬芳浸透了她的肺腔。
The smothering hospitality at last abates, and Marsha takes a deep breath of fresh air, taking in the pleasant scent of grass and wildflowers.

玛尔纱：——呼……嗬……
Marsha: *panting*

石像鬼妇人：你们一定有还有事，可我从来都帮不上忙呢……玛丽总是说我老啦。
Female Gargoyle: Our Marie hast ever been tireless in her toils. 'Tis a shame that she never permits us to aid her. Am I truly too aged to be of service?

石像鬼妇人：哎呀，我居然连一杯茶水都没有准备，这像什么话。
Female Gargoyle: Oh, but perhaps my age hath eclipsed my wisdom. For I have thus far been an unwelcoming host. Allow me to brew you some tea.

她急匆匆地走开了。
She leaves with singular purpose and surprising speed.

玛丽安娜：……她是我姨妈，一年前自顾自地跑到这种危险的地方来，说这个家里的人都不能离开她的照顾。
Sentinel: My aunt is a gentle soul. She came by here one year ago, not fearing the danger, saying she must take care of everyone left in the family.

玛丽安娜：刚才和你打招呼的修士，在去年受伤之后就和他的兄弟一起到这里避难，却不知为何发誓保持静默。
Sentinel: That old lump of stone that greeted us came here to take refuge with his brother after they were injured last year.

她不解地摇了摇头。
She hangs her head with resignation.

玛丽安娜：留在这里的同族不算多。我还有一些家人分散在其他地方，也许只有在战争结束之后才有机会重聚。
Sentinel: Only a small number of my kind dwell here. Many of us remain divided by the war.

玛丽安娜：……你可以在这等着，玛德琳姨妈会给你端来茶水。我去拿你需要的东西。
Sentinel: Enjoy my aunt's hospitality. I shall go now to collect what you seek.

玛尔纱：好，我就在这儿等着。
Marsha: I'll be here then.

玛尔纱：……
Marsha: ...

玛尔纱：等等……
Marsha: Hold on.

她忽然想起来，自己身旁的雕塑也许都是活生生的石像鬼。
She lets herself relax only a moment before noticing the stone-faced Gargoyles that look down at her from a dozen perches.

意识到这一点后，不自在的感觉像蚂蚁一样爬上她的身体。
A thought crawls under her skin.

玛尔纱：……你们好？
Marsha: Hello?

她在原地转了一圈，目光停留在一尊掩面哭泣的少女雕塑身上。
She spins around in place, meeting the unblinking eyes of each statue, stopping on the figure of a young girl.

少女悲惨而哀恸的姿态与其他的雕塑截然不同，很长一段时间内，玛尔纱的注意力都被她吸引。
The girl's hands cover her face in a mournful pose—the silent tragedy of an endless moment of loss.

玛尔纱：这是……
Marsha: This is ...

？？？：为什么玛丽安娜会把你带进来？
???: Why hath my cousin brought you here?

身后传来一声几乎有些无礼的提问。
A voice calls out behind her, rigid and almost rude.

玛尔纱：——？
Marsha: Huh?

一位清瘦高挑的修士出现在露天教堂的庭院中。
A tall, gaunt monk stands in the courtyard.

？？？：你不是我们中的一员，却把战争带到这一片静修之地。基金会又想达成怎样的目的？
???: You are not one of us. You are a bringer of war in our house of peace. What dost your Foundation seek from our quiet halls?

他的声音如同卵石在沙地上摩挲，话语中的指责意味清晰可闻。
There's accusation in the gravelly tone of his voice.

玛尔纱：我不会带来争斗，我只是想帮助你们结束这场战争。
Marsha: You misunderstand. The Foundation isn't bringing war. We're trying to end it.

？？？：战争不需要我们，也不需要你来结束。
???: This war is neither yours nor ours to end.

玛尔纱：你说……什么？
Marsha: What are you saying?

？？？：……
???: ...

男人先是沉默着，似乎在犹豫是否要开口解释。
The monk falls silent, as if debating whether his next words are worth the effort.

随后，他的五官绷成一幅过度揉捏的肖像画。
His face contorts, becoming an exaggeration of self-righteousness.

？？？：这场大战是一次天罚，抛弃信仰的人必然要经受苦难方可获得拯救——战争只会在文明彻底灭亡之日终结。
???: It has come as a divine punishment for the faithless who have turned from God. Its end will come only with the extinction of civilization.

玛尔纱：难道……你希望看到人类和神秘学家走向灭亡？
Marsha: Sounds like you want everyone—humans and arcanists alike—to suffer and die.

？？？：你在曲解我的观念，我又何以憎恶世人——这些受苦受难的灵魂？不，我会为每一个受到伤害的人祈祷。
???: You twist my words, knight. I do not seek this end—this path of suffering—out of hatred for humanity. No, I do so because I pray fervently for their deliverance.

？？？：我说的是“文明”。人们将在这场战争中尝尽“文明”的苦果，而“文明”亦将倾覆其自身。
???: But deliverance waits for the last edifices of this sinful world to crumble. When the faithless nations, as a fire consuming its last embers, burn themselves to ash.

？？？：工厂会被拆毁，以“进步”为名的奇谈怪论会被抛弃，人们会离开如同索多玛一般罪恶的都市。
???: Soon the artifices of modernity, their factories of war and death, will crumble, as Babel before them had; their lies of "advancement" and "revolution" dying with them.

？？？：——我们要回到一个纯洁而朴实的昨日世界。
???: We must return to the innocence of the past, as Nineveh did, heeding the word of God.

玛丽安娜：别再搬出你那一套说教，拉蒂斯。
Sentinel: Enough, cousin.

拉蒂斯：——！
Ladislas: ...!

逐渐沉溺的宣教者被一声呵斥惊醒。
The rebuke breaks his rhythm.

玛丽安娜拦在玛尔纱与拉蒂斯之间。她先与堂兄对视一眼，后者不自觉地向后退了小半步。
Sentinel steps between Marsha and Ladislas, forcing her cousin to take a step away.

玛丽安娜：你让玛德琳姨妈没能端上给客人的茶水。
Sentinel: Your prophecies have kept our guest from her tea.

拉蒂斯：……
Ladislas: ...

玛丽安娜转过身，将一只沉重的军用帆布包递给玛尔纱。
Sentinel turns and hands Marsha a heavy canvas military bag.

玛尔纱：好沉——
Marsha: Um!

玛丽安娜：拿得动吗？
Sentinel: Are you able to lift it?

玛尔纱：完全没问题，我的体力还相当够用。
Marsha: No problem. I can handle it.

拉蒂斯见证这一幕，疑云满面。
Ladislas watches the exchange with abject curiosity.

拉蒂斯：这又是在干什么，玛丽安娜。你刚在蒙佩杀死了基金会的合作人，现在转过头又和基金会站到一起了？
Ladislas: Marianne, is she not of the very Foundation thou sayest lacketh the will to end this war? What fruitless endeavor dost thou now pursue?

玛丽安娜：这是个人交往。从今天起，教堂不再对她隐匿。
Sentinel: She's my friend, Ladislas. I shall grant her the freedom to come and go from here as she wills.

拉蒂斯：可她并不是……
Ladislas: But she is not a ...

玛丽安娜：这里我说了算。
Sentinel: It is my right to do this, is it not?

拉蒂斯：……是。
Ladislas: Yes.

拉蒂斯顺从地低下头，完全失去了一分钟前高高在上的气度。
He lowers his head without protest.

处理完家务事的玛丽安娜再次转向玛尔纱。此时，误入家族纠纷的玛尔纱揣着包裹，已被吓退到五步之外。
Sentinel turns from her kin back to Marsha, who has by now taken several steps away.

玛丽安娜：从1918年开始，我找到过的重要线索都在这，其中包括了与重塑之手有明确合作的军队高层名单。
Sentinel: You will find here all that I've collected since 1918; most useful to you may be a list of those in each military who have made contact with the Manus.

玛丽安娜：如果基金会真的像你说的那样能让这些东西发挥价值，那你就先带它们离开吧。
Sentinel: Take them from here to your Foundation and make of them what you will. I hope they will serve you better than they did me.

玛尔纱：我、我知道了。
Marsha: I will. Thank you.

骑士以惊人的速度撤离了战场。
Marsha seems more than eager to retreat.

玛德琳姨妈立在一根石柱下，手中端着茶水，自责地颔首垂目。
Aunt Madeleine stands at the foot of a stone pillar, tea in her hand, and nods in self-reproach.

石像鬼妇人：……
Female Gargoyle: ...

露天教堂的庭院中安静了一会儿。
The courtyard falls still.

拉蒂斯沉寂良久，终于板起他那张枯瘦的脸，再度开口。
Ladislas breaks his silence with a withering glare.

拉蒂斯：堂亲……为什么你总是如此执着地走入纷争？我们本可以避开这一切。
Ladislas: Cousin, why hast thou concerned thyself with the affairs of this sinful world? We are involved now at our peril.

玛丽安娜：即使这场战争真的是一场天罚，那世人受的苦难也已经够多。
Sentinel: Even if this war was, as you believe, a divine punishment, the people have suffered enough.

拉蒂斯：——可人们并不知悔改！
Ladislas: Have they? I see no sackcloth, only ashes!

拉蒂斯弓着背，靠近教堂角落中掩面哭泣的少女。
He motions to the weeping girl tucked in the sanctuary niche.

拉蒂斯：难道艾格尼丝的现状还不能令你有所觉悟吗？
Ladislas: Hast thou learned nothing from our dear Agnès?

玛丽安娜：别把她牵扯进来。
Sentinel: Leave her out of this.

拉蒂斯：可正是艾格尼丝带来了有关战争的预兆……
Ladislas: It was she who prophesied this war ...

男人遁入一场回忆。
He drags up the memory with sharp intention.

拉蒂斯：在战争爆发之后，艾格尼丝陷入了长久石化的沉眠中。
Ladislas: And whose body turned to stone as it came to pass.

拉蒂斯：她是我们之中最接近圣洁的人，命运本不应该如此，这一定是她通过自我牺牲的方式为我们带来征兆……
Ladislas: Was she not the closest of us all to the ear of our Lord? Then I can see only one reason for her sacrifice. It is a warning to us.

玛丽安娜：如果艾格尼丝“雕塑化”真的是一种预兆，为什么老天不把话说得更明白些？
Sentinel: Tell me, if that is so, why God would choose such a warning?

拉蒂斯：因为这是神圣的隐秘——如同古老时代的书卷，总是把真理与奥秘隐藏在最晦涩的文字中。
Ladislas: Revelation and prophecy oft appear inscrutable to those that disbelieve them, until their truth is made manifest.

拉蒂斯的声音颤抖起来，喉头演奏出集谦卑与骄傲于一体的宣道式嗓音。
Ladislas's voice trembles, a practiced tension of humility and pride.

拉蒂斯：而我，解读了这份隐秘——它警醒我们避开战争，保持隐匿。
Ladislas: But I do believe, and I see clearly what thou hast not—that our Lord bids us to neither fight nor end this war.

拉蒂斯：我向你预言，战争绝不可能在灭尽一切罪恶之前结束，艾格尼丝只会在一个纯洁的世界与我们相见。
Ladislas: Because it hath come as the next great deluge to sweep this sinful world away. Agnès will return to us again as our past innocence is found and rebuilt from their ruins.

拉蒂斯：到那时，必然要有虔敬之人来重建新世界的信仰。而我们的族裔担负着的就是这样的使命。
Ladislas: But the faith must be preserved if it is to be rebuilt, and these labors will be the task of the faithful—of we, the Gargoyles.

拉蒂斯：不要再涉身于杀戮之中，不要再呼唤血液中的恶魔，玷污本就有罪的灵魂。你理应听从我的教诲，堂亲。
Ladislas: I pray thee heed my words, cousin: Lay down thy sword of vengeance. Do not answer to the whispering demon in thy blood, nor stain thy soul already so burdened with sin!

他以尊长般的威严结束了最后一句话，嘴角保持着长时间的颤抖。
He lets his words cling to his lips with solemn weight.

玛丽安娜：……
Sentinel: ...

已经听惯了的玛丽安娜未能受到鼓舞，反倒是哀伤漫上了她的双眼。
His cousin, however, has never been easy to preach to. She stiffens, sorrow and purpose welling in her eyes.

玛丽安娜：机枪，火炮，坦克，飞机……
Sentinel: Guns, cannons, tanks, bombs ...

玛丽安娜：如果你记得这些机器如何将我们毁灭，又如何变得越来越强大，你就应该明白——
Sentinel: You do remember how these devices have destroyed our lives, do you not? Then surely you already know ...

玛丽安娜：昨日的世界已经被彻底毁灭，我们永远也回不到过去。
Sentinel: That the innocence of the past does not simply lie buried for us to rebuild. It is dead and gone.

玛丽安娜：如果背负罪孽就能结束这场战争……这个代价对我来说，实在是微不足道。
Sentinel: If a stain on my soul is what it takes to end this war, then I shall not hesitate to stain it so.

拉蒂斯惊骇不已，眼中闪着泪花。他背过身，面向祭坛，瘦长的身躯隐藏在高大花窗投下的阴影中。
Ladislas is stunned. He fights back tears and turns to face the altar. The light from the stained glass windows wreathes him like a mourner's cloak.

拉蒂斯：你的发言令我惊恐，堂亲，我必须提醒你，我们的祖先中出现过真正堕落的恶魔。
Ladislas: Hast thou forgotten our ancestral peril? Or the manifold names we have stricken from our line when they turned from the righteous path? The demon blood hath overtaken our kin before, as I fear it soon will overtake thee.

拉蒂斯：而我……不希望“玛丽安娜”也成为必须被从谱系中抹去的一个名字。
Ladislas: I do not wish to blot out thy name as well ... Marianne.

11TH-13 和平的价码 / Concessions for Peace

梅蕾尔：嗯……
Merel: *sigh*

留在安全区内待命的“Ⅻ”小队成员百无聊赖地执行着烦琐的指令。
The bored and idle remnant of Squad "XII" carries out her as yet tedious orders.

她在一扇窗前驻足，眯着眼向室内看去。
She stops by a window, squinting inside.

梅蕾尔：……
Merel: ...

视线所及之处，只有破损的家具残骸。几盏打碎的瓷器上已结成蛛网。
Broken furniture and cobwebs woven between cracked and forgotten china.

一台造型独特的反制神秘术监测设备正立在未经清理的地面上。
A uniquely shaped counter-arcanum monitoring device disrupts the decaying scene.

梅蕾尔：——完全没有打扫过嘛。
Merel: Clearly no one's bothered to do any cleanup, then.

护卫兵打开窗，将身子探进去，面罩帮助她隔绝了大多数灰尘。
She opens the window and leans in, her mask blocking out the sudden puff of dust.

按照长官的指示，她拿出一张透明的布条，放置在神秘学设备边。
Following her officer's instructions, she pulls out a transparent strip of cloth and places it by the device.

布条很快显露出颜色，一行小字在其上浮现。
The cloth changes color rapidly, and a line of neat letters appears on its surface.

梅蕾尔：“反制设备运行正常”——看来没有我的事了。
Merel: "Counter-arcanum device operating normally." Looks like I'm not needed here either.

她翻窗而出。
She climbs back out the window.

梅蕾尔：唔，嘿——嗯？
Merel: Hmph. Hmm? Aren't you ...?

玛尔纱：……梅蕾尔。
Marsha: Merel.

梅蕾尔：玛尔纱？
Merel: Marsha?

年轻士兵噌的一下站起来上前迎接，她长出一口气，看起来如释重负。
The young soldier springs up to greet her, visibly relieved.

梅蕾尔：你终于……回来了！
Merel: It really is you! You're back finally!

玛尔纱：帕拉维扬还好吗？
Marsha: Is Paravyan alright?

梅蕾尔：病床上躺着呢，累得够呛，但至少没有缺胳膊少腿，应该很快就能恢复了。
Merel: Oh, poor guy's had a hard time of it, but at least he's still in one piece. He's lying in a sickbed as we speak. He should recover soon.

梅蕾尔：他说农庄那边收获不算太大，帕拉维扬带人去检查了一番，除了装甲车之外，没有特别多的重要信息。
Merel: It's too bad he didn't find anything too useful in the village, well, aside from that armored vehicle.

玛尔纱：幸好，玛丽安娜和我们去了同一个地方。
Marsha: Fortunately, Sentinel happened to be there at the same time.

梅蕾尔：所以，真的是她——刺杀希施费尔德上校的凶手？
Merel: So it really was her, the one who assassinated Colonel Hirschfelder?

玛尔纱：对，她给了我一大批有关重塑之手的情报，我已经送给刻雷乌斯长官了。
Marsha: Yes. She'd collected a wealth of evidence concerning Manus Vindictae. I've already delivered it to Commander Creius.

玛尔纱：至于刺杀事件，是一场误会。
Marsha: As for the assassination, it turns out her actions weren't entirely unjustifiable. Let's just consider it a misunderstanding.

梅蕾尔：误会？——可她……杀了人……
Merel: Misunderstanding? She literally killed a guy.

玛尔纱：说到这个，我也一样。
Marsha: She's not the only one.

骑士无意识地用拇指揉搓着掌心的缺口——旧伤已经很久没有痒过了。
Marsha unconsciously rubs the old scars on her palms, feeling them itch like never before.

梅蕾尔：……
Merel: ...

她抿着嘴唇，连带着在面罩上挤出一条扭曲的细缝。
Merel presses her lips together, creating a twisted crease in her mask.

梅蕾尔：好吧，我……总之，我担心你会出什么事，就像……
Merel: Well, I ... Anyway, I was just worried that something bad might've happened to you, like what happened to ...

玛尔纱：就像？
Marsha: To whom?

梅蕾尔：就像查尔斯和阿曼达。4个小时前，他们和安全区失去了联系，已经好一阵子没有收到他们的回报。
Merel: Charles and Amanda. We haven't heard from them in over four hours now.

玛尔纱：……是去299高地侦查的小队？派出救援了吗？
Marsha: They were dispatched to investigate Hill 299, correct? Has any help been sent their way?

梅蕾尔：刻雷乌斯长官已经派人去打探情况了，应该很快就会有结果。
Merel: Commander Creius sent some men to look for them. Hopefully, we'll hear some good news soon.

梅蕾尔：至于其他的调查员小队，大多数都有了消息，还有几个已经带着不少线索回到安全区了。
Merel: Most of the other teams have finished their investigations. A few of them are already in the safe zone, actually. Apparently, they've found a lot of useful info.

梅蕾尔：我们应该……不用再出任务了吧？
Merel: So, we won't have to head back out again, right?

年轻士兵小心翼翼地看着玛尔纱，像是在等她说出一个肯定的答案。
Merel watches Marsha carefully, as if waiting for her to confirm something.

梅蕾尔：前线每天都在被炮火轰炸，如果一不小心……
Merel: The front's getting shelled to hell and back. I mean, chances are we'll ...

玛尔纱拍了拍她的肩膀。
Marsha pats her on the shoulder.

玛尔纱：玛丽安娜分享的线索非常充分，等到联系上299高地的小队，我们差不多能收工了。
Marsha: The evidence Sentinel provided is quite damning. Our job here will be over just as soon as we can get ahold of the team at Hill 299.

玛尔纱：别太害怕了。
Marsha: Don't worry.

玛尔纱递交来的证物照片副本在桌面上排开。
Copies of the evidence Marsha submitted have been spread across the table.

私人信件、带有标记的军用地图、作战计划书、工程蓝图，以及被污损与篡改的证件……
Personal letters, marked military maps, battle plans, engineering blueprints, defaced and altered documents ...

格奥尔格：……
Georg: ...

一同被放在桌面上的，还有来自其他调查员从前线各地找回的物证。它们按照从1918年开始的时间顺序粗略排列着。
Along with them on the table are exhibits recovered by other investigators from across the front line, arranged in rough chronological order starting from 1918.

格奥尔格：不……难以置信。
Georg: This is unbelievable!

议员代表紧盯着桌面的众多图片，洪水般涌来的信息在一瞬间击溃了他的理解能力。
He stares at the pile, the sheer flood of information overwhelming him.

格奥尔格：这些资料中的内容竟与最荒唐的阴谋论调完全吻合……之前的多次和谈确实是在重塑之手的计划下破产的。
Georg: These documents ... The evidence is undeniable. Every one of those absurd conspiracy theories was true. The 1918 peace negotiations really were sabotaged by Manus Vindictae!

格奥尔格：在这之后的战争……双方都不断陷入明显的陷阱……1919年末的那场惨败之后，获胜方也意外地没有扩大战果……
Georg: The nations on both sides of this war have been under the deception of an invisible enemy. It is no wonder that even the victors of the 1919 offensive gained no real advantage.

格奥尔格：我的老天……这意味着，重塑之手在向双方提供援助和情报，以此不让任何一方取胜。
Georg: My God. To think Manus Vindictae has been sharing war secrets with both sides to ensure neither can win this war.

格奥尔格：——合谋。战争不过是重塑之手在控制军队之后展开的屠杀。我如何才能想象到这么荒唐的事！
Georg: That they have used our commanders as tools for their massacre. It is nigh on unimaginable!

政客猛地抬头。
He looks up with sudden realization.

格奥尔格：这不是一个国家的事，在如此充分的证据面前，大半个欧洲的军队高层都要倒台。
Georg: This does not simply concern one nation. These documents could topple nearly all of Europe's military leaders.

格奥尔格：我们甚至已经有了一份足够详尽的名单，只要动作够快，我们有希望将这些出卖国家的叛徒全部逮捕。
Georg: With this list of Manus defectors in our hands, and if we act with haste, we may finally put every one of them behind bars.

等到格奥尔格的情绪相对稳定，刻雷乌斯才补上一句建议。
Waiting for Georg's mood to stabilize, Creius adds a word of advice.

刻雷乌斯：受到精神影响的军官和士兵，可以交由科算中心治疗。艾伯哈特的例子证明这种影响是可以被消除的。
Creius: Let me remind you that Laplace may be able to heal these so-called "defectors." Eberhard's case proved that the Manus's mental influence can be purged.

格奥尔格：没错，没错——不能再等了。现在是行动的时刻，首相与议会已经做好了发动致命一击的准备。
Georg: Yes, yes, of course. Whatever the case, we must act as soon as possible. The chancellor and the parliament are prepared to strike.

在宏伟前景的光照下，议员代表的双手开始颤抖，几乎无法抓稳手中的纸张。
Finding light in a once grim future, he starts to shake, sending ripples through the papers in his hands.

刻雷乌斯：证据已经足够，我们的确没有必要再等。
Creius: Agreed. The evidence is sufficient. There is no need to delay.

格奥尔格：当然，这很好……！重返家园的士兵们会感谢我们的。
Georg: Wonderful! Just think of the soldiers finally making their way home.

格奥尔格：我们将为欧洲留下一个世纪的和平！
Georg: This is the day we secure a century of peace for Europe!

刻雷乌斯：不错，这听起来像是一句能够被历史铭记的名言。
Creius: Hmph. Sounds like a line for the history books.

议员代表没有心思在乎刻雷乌斯最后这句有些辛辣味的评论，他将所有文件都塞进公文包，匆匆离去。
He has no mind to react to Creius's parting jab. Stuffing all the documents into his briefcase, he rushes out.

刻雷乌斯将桌上剩余的凌散文件整理好，从桌面下方拿出一台通讯器。
Straightening the remaining mess on his desk, Creius retrieves a hidden communicator.

它已经被接通了很长一段时间。
It's been connected the entire time.

刻雷乌斯：……一切都在按计划进行。
Creius: Everything's going according to plan.

康斯坦丁：很好，其他地区的负责人也已经通过相同的方式，向主和派政要分享了情报。
Constantine: Good. The other teams have shared the same intelligence with the pacifist political leaders in their respective regions.

康斯坦丁：基金会现在只需留意是否有重塑之手的人员出面干预。
Constantine: All the Foundation has to do now is watch for any interference from Manus Vindictae.

维尔汀：可是……用这种方式推动和谈是否会带来更大的动荡？
Vertin: But, won't this approach cause even more turbulence?

刻雷乌斯：司辰？
Creius: Timekeeper?

这一次，身处副会长办公室的不再是两位立场相悖的委员。
He had been expecting the faction leaders, making this an unexpected relief.

维尔汀：我只是恰好在旁听，刻雷乌斯。
Vertin: Oh, yes, Creius. I was just listening in.

刻雷乌斯：原来如此……这个结局不会比我们眼下经历的战争更糟了，司辰。
Creius: I see. In any case, the outcome can't be worse than the war we're living through, Timekeeper.

刻雷乌斯：拿真实历史的记载来说，这场大战曾造成千万名士兵的死亡。
Creius: As I'm sure you learned in your history studies, this war claimed tens of millions of soldiers' lives.

刻雷乌斯：受战争直接或间接影响而死亡的平民人数也与之相当。
Creius: Not to mention the equally massive number of civilian casualties, whether direct or otherwise.

刻雷乌斯：现在，我们处在错谬历史之下的1920年，死亡数字也许只会有增无减。
Creius: We are now two years on from what should've been the end of this war. The death toll has already climbed much higher, and it will only continue to rise if we don't put an end to it soon.

刻雷乌斯：——我们已经促成了一个相对较好的结局。
Creius: At least our efforts have won us a marginally better outcome.

维尔汀：……我能理解。
Vertin: I see.

康斯坦丁：总之，战争结束了。
Constantine: In short, the war is already over.

康斯坦丁：主和派上台之后，蒙佩会成为下一次停火协定的签订地点。
Constantine: Once the pacifist political parties take power, an armistice will surely be signed in Montpaix.

刻雷乌斯：也许现在说这个有些不合时宜，不过，我想问……
Creius: This may not be the time, but I have a question to ask.

刻雷乌斯：如果基金会最终没能阻止重塑之手的谋划，委员会有没有商讨出可以执行的备选方案？
Creius: Does the Foundation Committee have any contingency plans should things take a turn for the worse?

房间中的沉默印证了通讯另一头的猜想。
The silence in the room confirms the suspicions of the voice on the other end.

维尔汀：……你发现什么异常了吗？
Vertin: Did you notice something suspicious?

前执夜人尽可能地从回忆中捞起一些可疑的细节。
The former vigil officer fishes out as many suspicious details from his memories as he can.

刻雷乌斯：这要回到希施费尔德的问题上。
Creius: It's about Hirschfelder's assassination ...

刻雷乌斯：你们是否记得玛尔纱提交报告的一处细节……
Creius: Do you remember a certain detail from Marsha's report?

玛丽安娜：也许在你们看来，他的死导致前线战火重燃，可是……即使我不杀他，谈判也注定会失败。
Sentinel: You think his death to be the spark of a reignited war, but, even if I had stayed my hand from him, your plans would have been for naught.

刻雷乌斯：如果这是一场注定失败的谈判，重塑之手又为何让希施费尔德冒着暴露的风险，同意与基金会的人员在蒙佩接触？
Creius: If that were so, why would the Manus risk exposing Hirschfelder? Why would they allow him to meet with the Foundation in Montpaix?

刻雷乌斯：换句话说，如果希施费尔德不被刺杀，这场停火谈判是否会成为一场漫长而无果的交涉拉锯战？
Creius: If Hirschfelder hadn't been killed, would the negotiations have become a fruitless tug-of-war?

维尔汀：重塑之手在配合基金会做一件注定失败的事。
Vertin: Manus Vindictae would only cooperate with the Foundation on something that was sure to fail.

凭借与重塑之手接触的经验，一种直觉式的猜想很快被构建起来。
An intuitive guess is assembled, drawing on the experience of prior contact with Manus Vindictae.

维尔汀：……他们在吸引基金会的注意力？
Vertin: Could it be that they're purposely diverting our attention?

刻雷乌斯：这也是我的猜测，司辰。
Creius: My thoughts exactly, Timekeeper.

刻雷乌斯：不过……现在没有任何事情，比即将到来的和平还要重要。
Creius: That said, securing peace is our top priority at the moment.

11TH-14 两磅糖 / Two Pounds of Sugar

格奥尔格：……过去六年的战争，几乎要将我们民族积攒的信念摧毁殆尽，有明见之人早已知晓，战争不应该继续进行下去。
Georg: 6 years of war have deeply shaken the resolve and faith of our nation. It is clear to all that this war cannot continue any longer.

格奥尔格：将军们害怕和平会让他们失去权势，竟不惜与重塑之手这样的邪教团体合作，好让更多年轻人毫无价值地失去生命。
Georg: Afraid of the loss of power that peace may bring to them, leaders across Europe elected to collaborate with the evil cult, Manus Vindictae, sacrificing countless young lives in meaningless carnage.

格奥尔格：可重塑之手唯一的目的就是让战争带来更多杀戮，他们阴谋的触手早已秘密地伸向了所有交战国的高层。
Georg: But carnage is precisely what Manus Vindictae desires. Unseen by all, their wicked influence has long wormed its way into the leadership of every warring nation.

格奥尔格：但是，这一切已经结束了，所有涉嫌叛国的将领都已遭到逮捕，很快，法庭将对他们做出公正的审判。
Georg: But worry not. Their conspiracy has been thwarted. Every treasonous general has been arrested and will soon face a fair court-martial.

格奥尔格：为国家浴血奋战的英雄们即将踏上返乡的旅程，祖国将以无比的热情和感激迎接他们的归来。
Georg: The heroes who bled for the fatherland are finally returning home, where we will welcome them with smiles on our faces and gratitude in our hearts.

格奥尔格：西线的战事，将于1920年11月11日上午11时正式结束。
Georg: On the eleventh hour of the eleventh day of the eleventh month of the year 1920, this war will come to an end.

刺杀事件过去数周之后，几近荒芜的蒙佩街道再度变得拥挤。
Weeks have passed since the assassination, and the desolate streets of Montpaix have sprung to life again.

来自各个交战国的代表们聚集在道路两旁，头戴柔软礼帽的人占据了主导，只有少数军帽掺杂其中。
Delegates from the belligerent nations gather on opposite sides of the road. Soft bowler hats and ties decorate the event, mixed with occasional peaked caps and military epaulettes, though now precious few.

刻雷乌斯：……
Creius: ...

更多的政要，意味着更严苛的安保。
More dignitaries demand tighter security.

即使各国都派遣了安保力量在周边警戒，行动队长仍然以相当坚定的态度向基金会请求了额外增援。
Each nation came with their own detail, but the operations commander insists on further reinforcements from the Foundation.

基金会安保Ⅰ：……第三次常规巡逻已完成，没有发现异常情况，长官。
Foundation Security Staff I: Third routine patrol complete. No anomalies detected, sir.

基金会安保Ⅱ：神秘术侦测小组未提供新的警告，是否降低监视等级？
Foundation Security Staff II: No further warnings from the arcanum detection group. Should we lower the alert level?

刻雷乌斯：保持原有戒备模式不变，指挥所内至少要常驻两个小队的安保力量。
Creius: Maintain the current level. I need at least two squads on standby at the command post at all times.

基金会安保们：明白，长官。
Foundation Security Staff: Yes, sir.

身穿白衣的基金会安保尽职尽责地执行下一轮指令。
Clad in white, Foundation security diligently carry out their orders.

在熙来攘往的小镇道路上，行动队长突兀地立在原地，闭目凝神片刻，耳中只有嘈杂而难以分辨的噪音。
On the busy town road, the commander suddenly stops. Eyes shut, he focuses, trying to sift through the din of stuffy conversation.

刻雷乌斯：……
Creius: ...

他打开通讯器，另一端立刻响应了接入请求。
He activates his communicator. The line sparks to life instantly.

刻雷乌斯：联系上查尔斯和阿曼达了吗？
Creius: Any response from Charles and Amanda?

？？？：——没有，自他们抵达299高地之后就再没有回应，呼出去的信号像掉进了山洞里。
???: Negative. They've been silent since they reached Hill 299. It's like we're calling into the abyss.

？？？：也许他们没有其他调查员那么幸运，已经被重塑之手杀害。
???: Chances are, they got snuffed out by the Manus. Luck can't be on everyone's side.

刻雷乌斯：至少要找到他们的尸体……
Creius: Even so, we need to recover the bodies.

？？？：让他们带着功勋章下葬吗？
???: What, so they can be buried with shiny medals? Tch.

通讯器另一头的声音带着明目张胆的嗤笑。
The voice on the other end bites back with a sneer.

？？？：这些铁片片说不定我在战场上就能捡到一大堆。
???: A couple minutes' walk on the battlefield, and I'll find you a whole pile of that scrap metal.

刻雷乌斯：……还有重塑之手活动的迹象吗？
Creius: Any other signs of enemy activity?

？？？：我连一个重塑之手的黑点也找不见了，也许军队倒台确实挫败了他们原本的计划。
???: Nope, not a single trace of the Manus scum. Maybe all this military and political turmoil messed up their plans after all.

刻雷乌斯：……我希望如此。
Creius: Let's hope so.

刻雷乌斯：299高地的事情要查清楚，我不希望有任何从眼皮底下溜走的东西。
Creius: Whatever the case, we need to get to the bottom of what happened at Hill 299. We can't afford to let any potential threats slip past us.

？？？：我已经在路上了。
???: Already on my way there.

？？？：不过，这事儿结束之后我建议你去找个心理医生，治疗一下你的“重塑之手恐惧症”。
???: How about seeing a psychologist when all this is all over, Creius? Maybe they'll finally cure your Manus Vindictae paranoia.

刻雷乌斯：保持警惕。
Creius: Keep your eyes and ears open.

他切断了通讯。
He ends the call.

在街道一处无人在意的角落，收尸人踽踽独行。
In an unnoticed corner of the street, a grim figure walks alone.

卡戎：……
Charon: ...

他在蒙佩的事务也已结束，在停火前夕，前线还有更多等待他收集的尸体。
Charon's work in Montpaix is over, and even now, on the eve of a ceasefire, there are many corpses on the front line waiting for him.

收尸人想念起陪伴自己的马儿。
His disjointed thoughts dwell on the horse that once accompanied him.

卡戎：不知道安德烈森还会不会回来。
Charon: Will Andreas ever return?

但遗失对他来说是一件已经习惯的事。他慢悠悠地转身，走向通往蒙佩之外的小路。
But loss has ever been his first companion. Resigned, he shuffles down the road away from Montpaix.

梅蕾尔：嘿——先生，请等一等！卡戎先生！
Merel: Hey, sir! Mr. Charon!

卡戎：……？
Charon: ...?

“Ⅻ”小队队员气喘吁吁地跑到他身边。
Merel runs up to him, arriving out of breath.

梅蕾尔：呼……你要走了吗？玛尔纱和我说你要回前线了。
Merel: *pant* You leaving already? Marsha told me you're heading back to the front.

卡戎：我正准备出发，请问你是？
Charon: She speaks the truth. And you are ...?

梅蕾尔：噢——对了，你不认识我。但是玛尔纱和我提起过你——玛尔纱，你认识吗？
Merel: Oh right, you don't know me. But Marsha told me loads about you. You know Marsha, don't you?

卡戎努力回忆着，在破碎的记忆中拼凑出了玛尔纱的样貌。
Charon struggles to remember, piecing together Marsha's appearance from his shattered memories.

卡戎：是那位骑士，我记得。
Charon: Yes. The knight. I ... remember.

梅蕾尔：那就好，我也得去一趟前线，要不要和我们车队一起走？
Merel: Great. I'm heading to the front as well. Do you want to, or, er, I mean, could you please join our convoy?

卡戎：一起？
Charon: You wish for me to join you?

梅蕾尔：你比我更清楚前线的情况。
Merel: You know the front better than anyone.

年轻士兵掏了掏口袋，摸出半块被细心重新封好包装的巧克力，塞到了卡戎手里。
Merel digs into her pocket, fishing out half a bar of chocolate that has been carefully resealed and wrapped, and slips it into Charon's hand.

梅蕾尔：拜托了，卡戎先生，和我们一起去吧。
Merel: Please, Mr. Charon. Come with us. We could really use your help.

前线安静得不可思议。
The front is still as death.

埃里希：……
Erich: ...

罗尔夫：……有些奇怪……
Rudolph: This quiet feels strange.

埃里希：闭嘴，罗尔夫。该死的，这真是……
Erich: Shut up, Rudolph! Why, damn it.

壕沟内的士兵们仰头看向天空。
Soldiers in the trenches gaze up at the empty sky.

停火协定尚未签订，但前线的军事活动已经全部中止。士兵们只是在壕沟内蹲守最后数日，就可以启程返回家乡。
The ceasefire has not yet been signed, but all military activity on the front line has been suspended. Yet the soldiers still man their trenches, hoping desperately to go home.

埃里希：噢……威利，弗兰兹……
Erich: Ugh, why did Willi and Franz have to ...

埃里希用粗糙的手指把五官揉得一片扭曲。
Erich rubs his face, his calloused fingers twisting his features with stress.

距离他们最后一次听见炮弹炸裂与机枪嘶鸣已经过去了六个小时。
6 hours have now passed since the last time a shell exploded or a machine gun rattled.

奇异的寂静落在硝烟未尽的漫长防线上，士兵们甚至能隐约听见铁丝网被风吹动的声音。
Yet the quiet has a strangeness of its own. The faint cold wind shivers the lines of barbed wire with audible tensile contractions.

罗尔夫：所以，到底谁赢了？
Rudolph: So, who won in the end?

埃里希：谁还在乎呢？
Erich: Does it matter?

罗尔夫点点头。
Rudolph's head sways between a nod and a shake.

罗尔夫：我们是不是该收拾东西了？
Rudolph: Then, uh, sh-should we start packing up?

埃里希：是啊，把你那些笔记本都带回去吧。你回去之后不是要把他们编成书吗？
Erich: Sure. You can finally take all those notebooks of yours back home. Weren't you planning to turn them into a book?

罗尔夫：也许回去之后，我再也不想写任何字了。你呢，埃里希，你回去之后打算做什么？
Rudolph: Yeah, but I don't know. Maybe once I stop being a soldier, my motivation to write will stop too. What about you, Erich? What will you do?

埃里希：做面包，我家就是干这个的。我老爹要见我回去了，一定会高兴得发疯。他会开一瓶红酒……
Erich: Make bread, I think. My family runs a bakery. I can already see it: my old man cracking open his finest bottle of Pinot Noir when I arrive.

埃里希心生一计。
An idea crosses Erich's mind.

埃里希：说起红酒……我们能到对面去要点吃的吗？他们有红酒，还有柔软的白面包，上次那个俘虏就是这么说的。
Erich: Speaking of which, I bet we can go and ask the boys on the other side for some food and drinks. They've got wine and soft white bread. At least, that's what POW said.

罗尔夫：我想吃桃子罐头……
Rudolph: I wouldn't mind some canned peaches.

埃里希：我都给你带来，谁叫我他妈真当上了连长呢？
Erich: Fine, I'll get you your peaches. Hmph. I guess I really am your captain, huh?

说来也巧，埃里希身旁刚好有一块碎布。他拿起来，绑在步枪上，打算当作一面和平的旗帜。
He scrounges around for a bit of scrap cloth, then ties it to his rifle, intending it to be a peace flag.

卡戎：埃里希——不要离开战壕，请保持一些耐心。
Charon: Erich, do not hurry to leave the trenches. Have patience.

士官不知何时进入了战壕。
Charon slinks back into the trench without a word.

埃里希扔下绑着旗帜的步枪，靠近卡戎身前。
Erich drops his rifle for now and steps toward Charon.

埃里希：噢——你回来了。有什么新消息吗？
Erich: Oh, Charon, you're back. Any news?

卡戎：代表团都抵达了蒙佩，距离停火协定签订还有48小时，在这期间不要让自己置身险境。
Charon: The delegations from various nations have arrived in Montpaix. The armistice will be signed in 48 hours. It is best to avoid any unnecessary danger until then.

罗尔夫：可是，我很饿，卡戎。你有没有带一点吃的回来。
Rudolph: But I'm starving, Charon. You didn't bring any food, did you?

梅蕾尔：——我这儿有吃的！
Merel: I did!

基金会成员出人意料地出现在士兵们的视野中。
The new voice catches Erich off guard.

埃里希：你是什么人？
Erich: Who are you?

卡戎：基金会为前线士兵提供了一些食物和饮料，她会负责为你们分发这些物资。
Charon: The Foundation has issued food and drinks to be brought to the soldiers on the front. She is responsible for distributing them.

梅蕾尔：没错，差不多就是这样。
Merel: Yeah, more or less what he said.

梅蕾尔：还有几箱啤酒没来得及卸货，谁和我一起去？
Merel: Right, I need a hand unloading these crates of beer. Any volunteers?

士兵：——有啤酒！
Soldier: There's beer?!

士兵们应声而起，还有不少人从地下掩体中钻出来。
The troops all rise at once, climbing over themselves to get out from the dugouts below.

狭窄的壕沟内一瞬间被挤得水泄不通。
In an instant, the trench is packed wall to wall.

梅蕾尔：别——别急啊，东西很多的。
Merel: Hey, easy there! There's plenty to go around.

埃里希：停下——停下！除了我叫到名字的，都给我回去！
Erich: Boys, boys! You're humiliating yourselves! Get in line, and I'll choose a few of you to help out.

埃里希喊出几个名字，随后，他转向卡戎。
Erich calls out a few names, then turns to Charon.

埃里希：布劳恩少校呢？
Erich: Where's Major Braun?

卡戎：他仍然被留在蒙佩。
Charon: He is needed in Montpaix.

埃里希：好吧，那还挺可惜的。
Erich: Ah, that's a shame.

埃里希：虽然他是个王八蛋，但是……管他呢，战争已经结束了。就这样吧。
Erich: Yeah, he's got a slap-worthy face, but, ugh, who cares? The war's over. Forget it.

埃里希：你、你，还有你，都过来，跟我去帮基金会的人把东西搬进来。
Erich: You, you, and you, come here and unload the crates for the nice Foundation girl.

食物很快被分发到每一位士兵手上。
The food is passed from hand to hand until it reaches every soldier.

战壕内依旧弥漫着那一股令人难以忍受的腐烂气味，但这丝毫没有影响士兵们的食欲。
Rot and despair still hang over the trenches, but they do nothing to dampen their appetites.

罗尔夫：……
Rudolph: ...

罗尔夫捧着手中的黄油蛋糕，生怕一不小心将它揉碎——他已经很久没有见过这么柔软和明亮的食物了。
Rudolph cups a butter cake in his hands, desperately afraid of crumbling it. He hasn't seen such soft and bright food in a long time.

他一口吞下，不自觉闭着眼仔细咀嚼。
Then all at once, he stuffs it into his mouth.

埃里希来到他面前，拉开罗尔夫的眼皮，将一只装满金黄色啤酒的铝杯塞到他手上。
Erich hurries to his side, shoving a mug of golden lager into his hands.

埃里希：来，喝一杯。
Erich: Come on, cheers.

罗尔夫：……好的。
Rudolph: Fine.

梅蕾尔：算我一个，干杯！
Merel: Count me in! Cheers!

士兵们：干杯！
Soldiers: Cheers!

金属杯不断地互相敲击，蹦出清脆明亮的杂乱乐曲。
The metal cups tap rhythmically, shaping into a joyful and bright tune.

一阵飘渺的合唱声远远地飘了过来。
From far across the field, their clinking percussion is met with raucous singing voices.

埃里希：什么？你们听到有人在唱歌吗？
Erich: What's that? Do you boys hear singing?

罗尔夫：我也听见了，是……在对面？他们在唱什么？
Rudolph: I hear it, too, from the other side. Why are they singing?

梅蕾尔：噢……这些算是人道主义物资，对面战壕也有份。
Merel: Oh right, these are humanitarian rations. They've been given to the other side too.

梅蕾尔：也许他们也在庆祝吧。
Merel: They're probably celebrating.

埃里希跳起来，重新拿起绑好“和平旗帜”的步枪，探出战壕不断挥舞。
Erich jumps over the top, waving his whitish flag toward the other side.

埃里希：他妈的，那就干脆再弄点噪音出来吧。
Erich: Hell yeah! Come on, boys, let's make some noise ourselves!

埃里希：干杯，对面的坏东西，听得懂吗？——干杯！
Erich: Cheers to you bastards over there! You understand what I'm saying? Cheers!

对面的士兵：——干杯！
Soldiers on the Other Side: Cheers!

士兵们：停火——万岁！！
Soldiers: To peace!

士兵们：万岁！！！
Soldiers: To life!

士兵们庆祝停火的情绪将持续到深夜。
The ceasefire celebration stretches late into the night.

重回战壕的卡戎一直蹲坐在角落里，以过分宁静的态度注视着眼前的一切。
Charon watches the festivities crouched in a dim corner of the trench.

梅蕾尔：哎，你怎么一直在这里躲着？
Merel: Hey, what are you doing holed up here alone?

还是有人注意到了他。
Despite his best efforts, he is noticed.

士官抬起头。
Charon lifts his head.

卡戎：我想我不太适合出现在那样的氛围中。
Charon: The presence of the dead is not fitting among such joy.

梅蕾尔：你当然可以。
Merel: What are you talking about? You fit in perfectly.

她摇晃着手中的香肠罐头与纸包软糖。
She waves a can of sausages and a paper-wrapped candy.

梅蕾尔：也许你不需要吃太多东西，但就连味道也不想尝试吗？
Merel: I mean, I know you don't exactly eat much, but you can still enjoy the taste of the stuff, right?

梅蕾尔：我认识一个脑袋是玻璃缸的家伙，就连它也会偶尔吃些什么……
Merel: I even know a guy with a fish tank for a head who eats every once in a while.

梅蕾尔：噢……我倒是没有真正见过它吃东西的场景……那些咖啡都被倒进玻璃缸里了吗？
Merel: That said, I've never actually seen him do it. Hmm, does he just pour the coffee straight into his fish tank, or what?

卡戎：感谢你分享的食物，它们对你一定意义重大，不必交给我。
Charon: The offer is heard but refused. Such things have better use to you.

梅蕾尔：你不饿吗？
Merel: Seriously? Aren't you ever hungry?

卡戎：我一直很饿……但这是一种常态。
Charon: There is always hunger within me.

卡戎：食物应该被尽量地留给生者，它们对我的价值不如对你的多。你应当多吃些东西，好让自己活着。
Charon: But food should be saved for the living. Eat well while you can. Stay alive.

梅蕾尔：呃……话确实是这么说。但听着确实有些奇怪。
Merel: Well, you're not wrong, but I wouldn't exactly put it like that.

梅蕾尔：收下吧，“猎犬”总说我吃得已经够多了。
Merel: Come on, take it. Hound's always poking fun at me for eating too much anyway.

卡戎：“猎犬”？
Charon: "Hound"?

梅蕾尔：啊，别在意——你还是拿着吧，趁着现在能吃的东西还不是那么紧缺。
Merel: Oh, never mind. Just take it, alright? It's not like it's easy to get a decent meal out here on the front.

年轻士兵不再执着于征询对方的意见，她把罐头塞进了对方的大衣口袋里，同时摸到了巧克力冰凉的塑料包装。
No longer insisting on soliciting Charon's opinion, Merel slips the cans into his coat pocket while touching the cold plastic wrapping of the chocolates.

梅蕾尔：至少记得尝尝巧克力！天气再暖和一点它就该融了，在前线可没法洗衣服。
Merel: Oh! At least try the chocolate in your pocket! It'll melt if you leave it in there much longer anyway.

卡戎没有抗拒，他点点头，迟缓地站起身。
Charon doesn't resist. He nods and slowly rises to his feet.

卡戎：……我该走了。
Charon: It is time I left.

梅蕾尔：好吧，不过我还走不了。
Merel: Alright, I still have some finishing up to do here.

梅蕾尔：我得去盯着他们发放物资，长官们希望每个人都能领到。你要去哪儿？
Merel: Won't be long. Just have to make sure everyone's got their supplies. Where are you heading anyway? If you wait a moment, I can come with you.

卡戎：这次我打算独自前往。
Charon: No. This must be done alone.

卡戎：我还有……一封信要送。
Charon: There is a message, one that must be sent off.

11TH-15 回信 / Send-off

保罗：你果然在这里，艾伯哈特。
Paul: Here you are, Eberhard.

艾伯哈特：你来了，保罗。前线如何？
Eberhard: Paul, it's good to see you, my friend. How's everyone holding up on the front?

保罗：他们昨晚在办宴会，一切都很好。
Paul: They are celebrating this war's end, singing songs and drinking beer. It's peaceful.

艾伯哈特：一切都很好。
Eberhard: Hm. Peaceful.

他满意地重复着。相比上一次相见，艾伯哈特的精神已经发生了显著的改变。
He repeats the words with satisfaction. Eberhard's spirit has changed significantly from the last time they met.

保罗：我以为基金会不会允许你自由活动。
Paul: It's unexpected that the Foundation would allow you to move so freely.

艾伯哈特：不，我的使命已经完成了。蒙佩我已经待不下去了，里面全都是西装革履的大人物。
Eberhard: Heh. No, my duty is done. I have no place in Montpaix—no place among suits and politics.

他长舒一口气，在清晨的空气中伸展四肢。
He exhales, stretching in the crisp morning air.

艾伯哈特：那个红头发的官员同意我出来走走，他说，“会有人看着我”——管他呢。
Eberhard: That red-haired official agreed to let me go for a walk every once in a while. He said, "Someone will keep an eye on you." Hah, whatever.

艾伯哈特：天又变冷了……但我也很喜欢这样清冷的早晨。它让我想起过去读书的日子。
Eberhard: It's getting cold, but I enjoy a crisp winter morning like this. It reminds me of our days as students.

艾伯哈特：在冬天的时候，天还没亮时就要起床。不过通常我会等到你骑着自行车，在我家楼下喊人的时候才睁眼。
Eberhard: Remember? We had to get up before dawn. I was lazier than you. I wouldn't wake up until you rode your bicycle to my window and shouted my name.

保罗：这样我们两个都会错过拉丁文课。还有瓦尔特。
Paul: Then, the two of us would miss Latin class. Just as Walter did.

艾伯哈特：哈哈哈，就是这样。拉丁文才是真正的地狱呢。
Eberhard: Hahaha, I don't blame him. Latin class was hell.

艾伯哈特：瓦尔特……我真为他惋惜。
Eberhard: Walter. He was a good lad.

保罗从外套内取出一只揉皱的信封。
Paul removes a crumpled envelope from inside his jacket.

保罗：这是我从蒙佩替你取来的包裹，还没有来得及给你，里面只有这一封信件。是穆伦贝格先生写给三班学生的。
Paul: This parcel is to be delivered to you. There's a letter within it from Mr. Mühlenberge, addressed to those of us in Class 3.

艾伯哈特：穆伦贝格……在假期里我准备去亲自探望他，但在家乡发生的事情，你也已经知道了。我没有来得及见他。
Eberhard: Mr. Mühlenberge ... I was planning to visit him during my home leave, but, well, you know what happened back home.

艾伯哈特：他从来不知道前线发生了什么，打下蒙佩之后，三班的学生只剩下你和我了。他还在给谁写信呢？
Eberhard: But he doesn't have a clue about what happened out here. What use is this letter? You and I are the only two class members left since the fall of Montpaix.

艾伯哈特：打开它吧，保罗，你念给我听。
Eberhard: *sigh* Alright, let's hear it, Paul.

保罗深沉地换了一口气，随后撕开信封。
Steadying his breath, Paul tears it open.

他展开信纸。
He unfolds the letter.

保罗：“同学们，及战士们：战争正进行到最关键的时刻。作为你们的老师，我有义务为各位提振信心。”
Paul: "My dear students and honorable soldiers! The war has reached a critical point, and, as your teacher, it is my duty to boost your morale."

保罗：“虽然你们身在前线，但不一定能将眼下的局势把握准确。我要告诉你们的是——胜利就在眼前。”
Paul: "I am aware that the vision of the war from the front lines may be more limited than for those of us in the fatherland. So, allow me to make things clear: victory is within our grasp."

保罗：“前线的日子虽然艰苦，但要考虑到，你们正在为更加伟大的事业献身。那么苦难也应当是甘甜的。”
Paul: "Though I'm certain life on the front is tough, remember, this is a sacrifice for a greater cause. Therefore, let your suffering be sweet!"

保罗：……
Paul: ...

保罗：“……这将是你们一生中最光荣的时刻，如同我教育过你们的，在未来，这些痛苦会成为回忆中的欢乐。”
Paul: "... This will be the most glorious moment of your lives. And, as I have taught you, perhaps it will please us one day to remember these things."

艾伯哈特：欢乐？你听听这，他一定是在抄袭卢坎……还是维吉尔？我有印象。
Eberhard: "Please us"? Ha. Listen to him. He's even quoted Lucan's poem, or was it Virgil?

保罗：也许是维吉尔。他在后面还引用了一个短句，命运眷顾勇者[Audentis Fortuna iuvat]。
Paul: It is most likely Virgil. He has quoted him below, "Fortune favors the bold."

艾伯哈特：那关于欢乐的那一句……Forsan……Haec……后面是什么？也许是……
Eberhard: The quote about remembering things, how do you say it in Latin again? Forsan ... haec ... and then what? Hmm ...

保罗：你弄丢了一个词，艾伯哈特。
Paul: The "et" is missing, Eberhard.

保罗：也许有一天，回忆这些痛苦也是一种快乐[Forsan et haec olim meminisse iuvabit]。
Paul: "And perhaps it will please us one day to remember these things."

艾伯哈特：没错，就是这一句！这个老东西被我们逮住了，这根本不是他自己说的。
Eberhard: Yes, that's it! Hah. That old fart ... He cheated. These aren't even his words.

艾伯哈特：总之，他就是个没脑筋的老头，根本不明白自己在说什么。
Eberhard: What a fool. He doesn't know what he's talking about.

保罗：哈哈……
Paul: Heh ...

苦涩的笑声过后，二人都沉默了一会儿。
After a bitter laugh, both are silent for a moment.

艾伯哈特：……保罗，我不会因为回想这一天而快乐的。
Eberhard: Paul, I'll never be "pleased" looking back on any of this.

艾伯哈特：如果我有孩子，我要怎么告诉他我年轻时的故事？
Eberhard: If I have children one day, how will I tell them about all this?

艾伯哈特：我让自己的同胞冒着机枪和炮火冲上必死的阵地，而我明明知道，敌人在几小时后就能夺回来。
Eberhard: I sent our fellow countrymen directly into the line of fire—a death trap—knowing full well that the enemy would retake the ground in mere hours.

艾伯哈特：他们白白送死，而这一切只是为了完成一个不知所云的命令。
Eberhard: Young lives, lost one after another, and for what? Some senseless orders?

艾伯哈特：……我听够了，把信收起来吧。
Eberhard: I've heard enough. Put the letter away.

保罗缓缓将信折起。艾伯哈特却一把夺过信纸，揉成一团，扔到纪念碑旁的杂草中。
Paul slowly folds up the letter. Eberhard, however, snatches up the letterhead, crumples it into a ball, and throws it into the weeds beside the monument.

前线已经停火，不再有轰鸣声从遥远的地方翻滚而来。
There is no more fighting, and for the first time in a long time, the day passes without the thunder of artillery.

阳光落在草叶、墓碑与鸟羽上，人们可以静静观赏。
The sunlight falls on blades of grass, tombstones, and birds in the air. Their songs finally can be heard once more.

艾伯哈特：你能懂吗，我从来没有这么好过，好像在这一刻，我能——或者我已经掌握了自己的命运。
Eberhard: This feeling ... I've never felt it before. It's as though, for this one moment, I can—no, I have already taken control of my future.

艾伯哈特：活着的感觉如此美好，我的胸中也不再有沉重的东西。
Eberhard: Haheh. I'd forgotten how good it feels to be alive. Heh. For the first time in a very long while, my heart feels light, my friend.

艾伯哈特：我犯下的错误也许无法洗清，我已经决定我唯一能走的那条道路。
Eberhard: The choices I've made may be irreversible, but I've made up my mind. There is only one path for me now.

他望向山坡的顶端，情不自禁地向上迈步。
He looks to the top of the hill and starts climbing.

保罗：……你应该回去读书，学校花名册上还留着你的名字，课本与笔记也寄存在了学校的仓库中。
Paul: Do you not wish to continue your studies? Your writings are surely safely stored in the school's archives.

艾伯哈特：你还会回学校吗，保罗？
Eberhard: Would you return to school, Paul?

保罗：我也许不会，但你还可以继续学业。
Paul: It is unlikely, but you still may.

艾伯哈特：他们还会教给我们更多的知识，我们还要经历更多的考试……我还需要一份中学毕业证书吗？
Eberhard: For what? For knowledge? A diploma? That might've mattered to the old me.

艾伯哈特：可我感觉我已经成为了另外一个人。
Eberhard: But I'm no longer that boy.

保罗：艾伯哈特——
Paul: Eberhard—

艾伯哈特：不行的，保罗。现在已经太迟了。
Eberhard: It's too late, my friend. Far too late.

艾伯哈特：接下来我要一个人去散个步，请你给穆伦贝格先生写一封回信吧。
Eberhard: I need some time alone. Please write the reply to Mr. Mühlenberge for both of us.

今日有十足的好天气，艾伯哈特开始像郊游登山的学生那样攀上山坡。
The weather is unseasonably mild, and Eberhard begins to climb the hill like a student on a field trip.

难得的明媚阳光与恰到好处的清冷令人神清气爽。
The sunshine and brisk air make the world feel new.

艾伯哈特：天很蓝……战争结束了，保罗。
Eberhard: The war is over, Paul. The sky is so blue.

保罗：就像过去一样。
Paul: Just as it always was.

艾伯哈特：就像过去一样……这话真好。再见。
Eberhard: Just as it always was, hmm. Well said. Farewell, my friend!

他挥舞手臂，转身离去。
He waves, turns, and walks away.

保罗立在原地，将笔记本摊开。
Paul stands and opens his notebook.

保罗：“穆伦贝格先生：您寄来的信件已由您的学生签收。”
Paul: "Dear Mr. Mühlenberge, your letter has been well received by your students."

保罗：“他们共同度过了最黑暗与困苦的时光，曾在悲苦中相拥而泣。而现在一切业已结束。”
Paul: "They have endured the darkest and hardest of times together. But now, the sorrow and pain have reached their end."

保罗：“他们是勇敢的人，忠诚的人……但是，这些品质在某些时刻变得过于沉重，并非他们年轻的肩膀所能承载。”
Paul: "They showed courage and loyalty, yet these virtues became a burden—one far too heavy for their young shoulders to bear."

保罗：“故而我不愿意用这些词来为他们增添更多荣耀。”
Paul: "Therefore, I will not pile any more empty words upon them."

保罗：“战火让年轻人变成另一副模样，您教授他们的知识不再有用武之地，而他们也无法再度聆听您的教诲。”
Paul: "War has shaped these young men into something else entirely. The knowledge you imparted is of no use to them now, nor will they ever again hear your teachings."

保罗：“此刻，我不得不用最沉重的心情告诉您——”
Paul: "At this time, I must inform you with the heaviest of hearts that ..."

保罗：……
Paul: ...

保罗：“十三年级三班的学生已经全部阵亡。”
Paul: "All of your students from Class 3 have fallen."

保罗：“——谨致敬意。一个已死之人。”
Paul: "With best regards. A dead man."

“这是关于士兵保罗·霍伊默尔的记录。”
This concludes the records of the soldier Paul Haumann.

11TH-16 未完成的布道 / An Unfulfilled Prophecy

自从停火的消息传到教堂，拉蒂斯就一直缄口不语。
Ladislas hasn't spoken a word since news of the ceasefire reached their sanctuary.

拉蒂斯：……
Ladislas: ...

他长久地跪在祭坛前，已经有好几日没有吃正餐，原本已足够瘦削的他此刻似乎已经变成了一座嶙峋的塔楼。
He's been kneeling at the altar for days, having eaten next to nothing. Always thin, he now looks more like a jagged stone obelisk than a man.

石像鬼妇人：玛丽，这可如何是好？他连我亲手给他做的饼干都不吃了，他以前可不是这样的。
Female Gargoyle: What am I to do, my sweetie? He will not so much as touch the biscuits I baked for him. Never have I seen him in such a state.

妇人担忧地将手怀抱在胸前，对此现状无可奈何。
The woman clasps her hands to her chest, worried but helpless.

玛丽安娜：……拉蒂斯。
Sentinel: Ladislas.

她发出试探性的呼唤。
She gently calls out to him.

拉蒂斯：…………
Ladislas: ...

玛丽安娜：战争没有以他所预言的方式结束。
Sentinel: The war has ended not as he foretold.

玛丽安娜：他要从错误地解读了预兆的罪恶感中走出来，这需要一些时间。
Sentinel: It may take some time ere he is able to free himself of his guilt.

石像鬼妇人：拉蒂斯，主会包容我们的愚昧和罪恶，只要你的心是向着主的……唉。
Female Gargoyle: Dear Ladislas, *sigh* keep thy heart in the Lord, for He shall forgive us, no matter how great our missteps.

好心而虔诚的女人止住自己说更多话的欲望，她知道自己绝无可能通过宗教论理说服比自己学识更加渊博的拉蒂斯。
The good and pious woman stops herself from saying more. There's no line of reasoning sufficient to break him from his watch.

石像鬼妇人：玛丽，无论他是怎么想的，再过几天，我们一定要一起回鲁昂。
Female Gargoyle: Marie, I beg thee do something. One way or another, we all must return to Rouen in the coming days.

妇人珊珊离去。
She leaves without another word.

玛丽安娜来到拉蒂斯身边，但无心打扰拉蒂斯的默祷。她转向一直坐在角落中掩面哭泣的少女雕塑。
Sentinel comes to Ladislas's side but has no desire to interrupt his silent prayers. Her focus instead is on the statue of the crying girl.

玛丽安娜：拉蒂斯，你告诉过我，在战争结束的时候，艾格尼丝会恢复原样。
Sentinel: Ladislas, you foretold that Agnès would return to herself come the end of the war.

她拿出一块手帕，在“雕塑”上轻轻擦拭。
She pulls out a handkerchief to softly clean the stone's unmoving face.

玛丽安娜：可是现在呢？我们还有什么办法带回共同的朋友……和亲人？
Sentinel: Yet she remains unchanged. Is there truly no way to revive our dear friend? Our family?

拉蒂斯：………………
Ladislas: ...

回应她的仍然只有谦卑与愧疚的沉默。
Once again, she receives only a humbling, guilt-ridden silence.

玛尔纱：……玛丽？
Marsha: Marie?

转过头，玛丽安娜看见教堂这几日的常客。与往常一样，她照例带来了不少食物——这次是一些腊肠与干奶酪。
She turns to the voice, finding it belongs to the woman that has become a regular visitor to their sanctuary. As usual, she brought food—this time some salami and dried cheese.

玛尔纱将补给品交给其他人后，径直朝玛丽安娜走来。
After handing off the supplies, Marsha marches straight toward her.

玛丽安娜：前线有什么新消息？
Sentinel: What news from the front?

玛尔纱：一部分军队已经撤离前线，还有一部分会在停火协定正式签订之后撤退。
Marsha: Some troops have already withdrawn. The rest will follow suit once the armistice is officially signed.

玛尔纱：拉蒂斯……他还是不吃东西吗？
Marsha: Ladislas ... He still won't eat?

玛丽安娜：不用管他。
Sentinel: Just leave him be.

她已经不打算在这件事上纠缠，她继续刚才的工作——为掩面哭泣的少女雕塑擦去灰尘。
She doesn't let Marsha dwell on the matter, returning to her work dusting the statue.

玛尔纱：其实……我不知道这么问是否礼貌——这是一个……真正的雕塑吗？
Marsha: If you don't mind me asking, is this statue real?

玛丽安娜：真正的雕塑？
Sentinel: What do you mean?

玛尔纱：我、我不知道该怎么说……只是，我从来没见她活动过……
Marsha: I-I'm not sure how to put this into words properly. It's just that I've never seen her move.

玛丽安娜：我明白你的意思。
Sentinel: Ah, now your words are clear.

她收起手帕，深吸一口气，湿冷的晨雾灌入肺腔。
She gathers her handkerchief and takes a deep breath, the cold, wet morning mist filling her lungs.

玛丽安娜：她是艾格尼丝，我的远房表妹，我们有同一个曾祖母。
Sentinel: This is Agnès, a distant cousin of mine. We share a great-grandmother.

她把手放在艾格尼丝石质的膝盖上。
She places her hand on Agnès's stone knee.

玛丽安娜：1914年之前，我们一直生活在一起。有时在鲁昂郊区的家族庄园里，有时她会来巴黎的出租屋看望我。
Sentinel: We took residence together until 1914—both at our clan estate in the suburbs of Rouen and in my rented apartment in Paris.

玛丽安娜：战争开始之后不久，我加入军队离开家乡。在第一次回到家时，我发现她化成了一座雕塑。
Sentinel: When the war broke out, I departed to join the army. Upon returning during my first leave, I found her in the cellar—it came to pass that, in my absence, she had turned herself to stone.

玛尔纱：她……一直如此？
Marsha: She can stay in this form as she pleases?

玛丽安娜：你必须要让你的心脏保持跳动……如果你从内到外都成为了石头，就无法凭自己的力量恢复肉身了。
Sentinel: Only so long as her heart yet beats. Were she to turn to stone from within, she would be unable to restore her body to flesh.

玛丽安娜：但拉蒂斯告诉我另外的可能。
Sentinel: But Ladislas informed me of another possibility.

玛丽安娜：按照拉蒂斯的说法，艾格尼丝的石化并非出于平凡的理由，而是她选择了一条自我牺牲的道路。
Sentinel: He said Agnès's petrification was an extraordinary act of self-sacrifice.

玛丽安娜：同时这也是一份预言——石像鬼应该在这场战争中置身事外。
Sentinel: And that this sacrifice was also a prophecy: Gargoyles were not to coexist with this war.

玛丽安娜：也许战争结束的那一天，会有奇迹降临在艾格尼丝身上。
Sentinel: He said that a miracle would occur—that Agnès would be freed from her petrification. I thought it might have been true.

她看向跪在地上的拉蒂斯。
She glances toward Ladislas, still kneeling.

玛丽安娜：现在看来，他的预言是错的。艾格尼丝还是没能复原。
Sentinel: But I suppose it was not. Agnès has shown no signs of recovery.

玛尔纱：那有没有什么别的办法……
Marsha: There must be another way.

年轻的石像鬼懊丧地摇头。
The Gargoyle shakes her head, disheartened.

玛丽安娜：我也不清楚让艾格尼丝复原的方法……我对血脉的了解甚至不比一个外人多多少。
Sentinel: If only there were—if only I knew of one. But there is very little I know of our bloodline.

玛丽安娜：我的大多数同族都会在成年前接受族内的传统教育，但祖母支持我在很小的时候就去世俗学校读书的愿望。
Sentinel: While the young of my kin generally receive a traditional education from within the clan, my grandmother supported my decision to attend a secular school in my youth.

玛丽安娜：直到战争爆发前，我都住在巴黎租的小房间里，准备申请巴黎装饰艺术学院。
Sentinel: I resided in a small rented apartment in Paris for some time, hoping to enroll at l'ENSAD—that was, until the war broke out.

玛丽安娜勉强自己看向玛尔纱的眼睛。
Sentinel forces herself to look into Marsha's eyes.

玛丽安娜：之后就是战争……战争，你也清楚。过去的记忆，还有许多生命，随着炮火声一起消失。我失去了很多朋友和亲人。
Sentinel: This war ... Well, you've seen the face of it. It takes but one shot to end a life, and this war has hurt millions. Friends, family, loved ones ... I have lost far too many.

玛尔纱：玛丽……
Marsha: Marie ...

玛丽安娜：算了。你有时间吗？
Sentinel: Forget it. Tell me, have you yet time today?

玛尔纱：你想做什么？
Marsha: What do you want to do?

玛丽安娜：……出去走走。我在教堂待太久了。
Sentinel: Take a stroll. I have spent far too much time in the monastery.

历经跋涉，她们回到了那一片曾被杀戮所扰的原野。
After a long journey, they return to the field once soaked in blood.

玛丽安娜：飞行员？
Sentinel: A pilot?

路途中谈及的话题仍在继续。
Their earlier conversation still lingers.

玛尔纱：——是的，我曾经想过要当飞行员。
Marsha: Yes, that's what I wanted to be.

玛丽安娜：为什么？
Sentinel: Why?

玛尔纱：当时有很多骑兵都加入了空军，他们认为，只有天上还保留有最后一丝骑士精神。
Marsha: Many knights joined the air force at the time. They believed the sky to be the only battlefield that still maintained at least some semblance of knightly chivalry.

玛尔纱：至于地面的部队，唯一能做的就是在泥泞中爬行，或者挖战壕。
Marsha: It had more than the ground, at least, crawling through mud and digging trenches.

玛丽安娜：我不喜欢飞机。在地面的人拿它们没有任何办法，还有那些该死的引擎声……
Sentinel: I loathe airplanes. They're exceedingly difficult to withstand from the ground, and the engine noise.

她咽下更多的抱怨，以免显得太过难堪。
She swallows the complaints, not wanting to sound bitter.

骑士轻轻拍了拍石像鬼的后背。
Marsha extends her arm over to her friend's back.

玛尔纱：你不需要再担心了，也许……你会喜欢上坐飞机旅行。
Marsha: Relax, you don't need to fight them anymore. In fact, I'd wager you'll come to like traveling by plane in time.

玛丽安娜：……
Sentinel: ...

她把目光转向如浪涌般的草地。
She turns to the sea of grass rippling in the wind.

玛丽安娜：你看见那些人的尸体了吗？
Sentinel: The corpses that lay yonder—did you see them earlier?

玛尔纱：没有，也许卡戎已经收走了他们。
Marsha: No. Perhaps Charon had already buried them.

玛丽安娜：哈……有可能。他倒确实是个有意思的怪人。
Sentinel: Hah, most likely. He is an interesting fellow, if not strange.

玛尔纱：还是个好人——在公墓的时候，我们差点又要打起来。
Marsha: And kind, too. Without him, you and I would certainly have fought again at the graveyard.

玛丽安娜：……
Sentinel: ...

玛尔纱：我想起来了——
Marsha: Oh, that reminds me!

她忽然低下身子，在路边摸索着什么。
Suddenly, she bends down, rummaging in the roadside dirt.

玛丽安娜：什么？
Sentinel: What?

玛尔纱：你用烟雾弹呛过我！
Marsha: You threw a smoke grenade at me!

玛丽安娜：嘿！
Sentinel: Hey!

玛尔纱：哈哈哈——
Marsha: Hahaha!

骑士笑着在土路上奔跑，石像鬼一边大步追赶，一边用雨披擦去脸上的土灰。
They laugh as they race down the dirt road, feeling more like children than soldiers for the moment, however brief.

——她们停在风车前，巨大的齿轮系统啮合转动，仿佛一位年迈巨人的呼吸。
They come to a halt before the windmill, its colossal gears interlocking and turning, like the breath of a slumbering ancient giant.

眼前的一切沉静在奇异的宁静中。
The slow creaking of the windmill becomes the only sound.

玛丽安娜：……玛尔纱。
Sentinel: Marsha.

玛尔纱：嗯？
Marsha: Hm?

玛丽安娜：你是不是该走了？
Sentinel: Are you leaving?

玛尔纱：不，今天我有很多空闲的时间。
Marsha: No. I have plenty of free time today.

玛丽安娜：我是说之后……我知道在和约签订之前，基金会需要你留在这里看住我的动向。
Sentinel: Not now, after the armistice. I know well that the Foundation has tasked you with keeping a watchful eye on me.

玛尔纱：也不完全是这样……
Marsha: It's not exactly like that.

玛丽安娜：没事。你留下吧。只要你不对我撒谎。
Sentinel: All is well. You may stay, so long as you do not lie.

玛丽安娜：你有需要的地方，我可以帮忙，但不要劝我加入基金会。我不能丢下我的家人。
Sentinel: I shall even aid you should you require it. But do not attempt to persuade me to join the Foundation. I cannot abandon my family.

玛尔纱：我知道……正式停火之后，我也要离开了。
Marsha: I know that. I'll be leaving after the armistice is officially signed.

玛丽安娜：嗯……
Sentinel: *sigh*

玛丽安娜：……？
Sentinel: ...?

玛丽安娜：有人在风车里。
Sentinel: It comes from the windmill.

玛尔纱：——我听着更像是马的声音。
Marsha: Sounds like a horse to me.

玛丽安娜：马……？
Sentinel: A horse?

二人取下武器，小心翼翼地向风车的入口接近。
They cautiously approach the windmill's entrance.

玛丽安娜靠在玛尔纱之前，让一边的身体石化，侧着身子打开风车的塔门。
Sentinel moves ahead of Marsha, turning her body sideways, and hardens into stone to give a weighty push on the door.

战马：咴咴——！
War Horse: Neigh!

玛尔纱：哇——好漂亮的小马！
Marsha: Wow, what a beauty!

玛丽安娜：这真是……一匹马？
Sentinel: A horse indeed. What brings it here?

11TH-17 沉默的风轮 / Serenity on the Wind

战马：咴。
War Horse: Neigh.

玛尔纱：出来，到我这儿来，好孩子。
Marsha: Here, come on out. That's a good boy.

也许是马儿天然更亲近一名骑士，它耷拉着脑袋，向玛尔纱蹭了过去。
The horse seems to naturally gravitate to the knight, drooping its head to brush up against her.

战马：咴……咴咴——
War Horse: Neigh ...

玛尔纱：哈哈——
Marsha: Haha.

玛尔纱：天呐，玛丽，这真是一匹马。看看它的毛色！上校都不会有这么漂亮的伙伴。
Marsha: Oh my, Marie, look at his beautiful coat! Not even the colonels have such handsome companions.

玛丽安娜：它很亲近你嘛……你会骑马吗？
Sentinel: He seems to have taken a liking to you. Can you ride?

玛尔纱：看看你在问什么，玛丽安娜，我可是一名骑士。
Marsha: What sort of question is that, Marianne? You're talking to a knight.

即使没有马鞍，训练有素的骑士仍然飞快地攀上了马背。
Even without a saddle, she mounts the horse with ease.

玛尔纱：抓住我的手，上来——我带你骑一段！
Marsha: Come on, take my hand. I'll give you a ride.

玛丽安娜：……
Sentinel: ...

犹豫片刻后，她握住了骑士向她递来的手。
After a moment's hesitation, Sentinel takes the offered hand and finds herself on the horse's back as well.

玛尔纱：这片原野太适合骑马狂奔了，可是我担心你会颠下去。
Marsha: This field is perfect for a gallop, but I'm worried you might fall.

玛丽安娜：那你自己骑就好。
Sentinel: Let me off, then. Enjoy it yourself.

玛尔纱：不，那有什么意思呢？——但你还是得抓紧我。
Marsha: What fun would that be? Come on, just hold on tight.

玛尔纱：驾——
Marsha: Giddy up!

玛丽安娜：嘿！
Sentinel: Hey!

玛尔纱：哈哈哈哈——
Marsha: Hahahaha!

玛尔纱：玛丽，我没想到你不会骑马。但我可以教你如何与马匹相处——只需要把它们想象成特大号的猎犬。
Marsha: I can't believe you don't know how to ride a horse. But I can teach you. Just think of them as oversized hunting dogs.

玛尔纱：等你回家之后，我会来找你，如何？——那个时候你会在哪里？
Marsha: I'll come find you after you move. How does that sound? Where will you be if you're not staying with your family?

玛丽安娜：巴黎？——也许不会。我也搞不明白。但我会试着开一家服装店。
Sentinel: Perhaps Paris? My mind is yet made. But, wherever I am, I should like to open a clothing store.

玛尔纱：那你要取一个我一眼就能认出来的店名……不，你一定会成为特别出名的设计师，都不需要我刻意去找。
Marsha: Then you'd better choose a store name I'll recognize right away. No, you'll become so famous that it'll take no work to find you.

玛尔纱：你能给我做一套游行礼服吗？
Marsha: Could you make a parade dress for me?

玛丽安娜：我不明白这该怎么做，但我想……我可以学。
Sentinel: I have never before made such a dress, but, I shall learn for you.

玛尔纱：天呐，我会拥有一套法国设计师量身定做的游行礼服，简直就像是在做梦。
Marsha: Wow, a parade dress tailor-made for me by a famous French fashion designer. It's like a dream come true.

玛丽安娜：哈哈……
Sentinel: Heh ...

自从战争降临以来，从未有过如此安然的时光可供消磨。
This might be the first moment of true peace they've felt since the war began.

她们都骑累了，就放走了驯顺的马儿，任它在草地中寻觅嫩叶。
The horse grows tired. They dismount to let it roam and feed on the tall meadow grass.

玛丽安娜：可是，我要如何知道你的下落呢？之后基金会应该还会把你派到其他地方。
Sentinel: What of you? How may I come into your contact? The Lord only knows where the Foundation will send you once this is ended.

玛尔纱：没错，我们和重塑之手之间的冲突还没有结束。但我总能想办法联系到你的。
Marsha: You may be right. The fight against Manus Vindictae isn't over. But don't worry. I'll always find a way to get in touch with you.

玛丽安娜：我不想评价你的选择，但……尽量活下去，玛尔纱，不要太勇敢。
Sentinel: I do not wish to judge your decision, but do all you can to stay alive, Marsha. Do not make a martyr of yourself.

玛尔纱：为什么要说这么奇怪的话，玛丽？
Marsha: Why the sudden sentimentality, Marie?

玛丽安娜：……
Sentinel: ...

玛丽安娜：假如这一切都有结束的时候，到那一天，我希望……还能再见到你。
Sentinel: If all this—when all this—comes to an end one day, I hope ... I hope to see you again.

玛尔纱：我也是。
Marsha: Me too.

玛丽安娜：……我会为你祈祷，虽然我不太确定我的声音是否能被听见。
Sentinel: I will pray for you, though I am uncertain if my voice will be heard.

玛丽安娜：我不像她——艾格尼丝。她是从天堂来到人间的天使，至于我……
Sentinel: I am nothing like Agnès. She is an angel descended from heaven. And I am ...

石像鬼将眼神掩藏在阴影中。
The Gargoyle keeps her eyes hidden in the shadow.

玛丽安娜：算了。
Sentinel: Never mind.

玛尔纱：……
Marsha: ...

“哔哔——”
*beep-beep*

战马：咴咴——
War Horse: Neigh!

玛尔纱：诶——？
Marsha: Hmm?

通讯器的噪音惊扰了安静的马匹，它倏然抬头，奔向远处。
The communicator's noise startles the nibbling horse. It lifts its head and bolts into the distance.

玛尔纱：啊……它逃走了。
Marsha: Ah, there he goes.

她拿起通讯器，再次看见了未署名的呼叫人。
She picks up the device. Again, it's an anonymous caller.

？？？：玛尔纱，尽快到前线待命，具体坐标我已经发送给你了。
???: Marsha, we need you on the front immediately. I've already sent you the coordinates.

？？？：如果石像鬼愿意跟你走，最好把她也一起带上。
???: Bring the Gargoyle if she's willing.

玛尔纱：你到底是谁？
Marsha: Who are you?

？？？：——我们很快就会见面。
???: We'll meet soon enough.

11TH-18 停火协定 / The Armistice

半小时前。
Half an hour earlier.

格奥尔格：是的，首相，代表团都已经抵达蒙佩……今天晚餐前就会签字。
Georg: Yes, Mr. Chancellor. The delegations have arrived in Montpaix. The armistice will be signed before dinnertime.

格奥尔格：明白，我们会办一个体面的晚宴……朴素至上，当然，准许进入会场的记者会经过筛选。
Georg: Understood. We will be sure to serve a simple but delicious dinner. And of course, all journalists granted entry will be carefully selected.

近期跻身内阁的格奥尔格先生干脆利落地挂断电话，他怀着充分的信心，再次检查了一遍停火备忘录。
Mr. Georg hangs up the phone dryly and with full confidence before checking the ceasefire memorandum once again.

格奥尔格：……不算太差。
Georg: Phew. No problems so far.

他拿起一支盟国外交官赠送的钢笔，在一张稿纸上绘下几个签名。
He picks up a fountain pen and sketches out his signature over and over again.

在停火协定上签字是他今天最重要的工作，必须勤加练习。
Each loop of the pen is taken with utmost seriousness—aware of the gravity it will soon hold.

又一道急躁的铃响，格奥尔格部长笔尖一滑，让字母“o”的形状变得相当不美观。
Another impatient ring, and the tip of his pen slips, leaving the letter "o" in a rather unsightly shape.

格奥尔格：啧啧——
Georg: *tut*

不过，这次响铃的是助理桌上的那一台。
But the call isn't on his phone. It's the one on his assistant's desk.

这意味着，对他来说这不是一件需要亲自处理的事情。
Which, thankfully, means it isn't his concern.

格奥尔格：弗雷德里希，你在做什么呢？快接电话。
Georg: What are you waiting for, Friedrich? Pick up the phone already.

部长助理：……
Assistant: ...

助理埋首在一大堆文件中，不慌不忙地书写着什么，没有对响铃做出任何反应。
The assistant, buried in paperwork, fails to react to the ring.

格奥尔格：你耳聋了吗，嗯？
Georg: Pick up the phone, you hear?

格奥尔格：噢——我真不明白为什么他们要安排一只鼹鼠来当我的助理，回国之后，我一定让你滚蛋。
Georg: Damn it. I still fail to understand why they would assign me a deaf sloth as an assistant. I'll have you fired the moment I set foot on the fatherland!

格奥尔格气势汹汹地冲向助理的桌面，想要给他一个教训。
Georg storms over to the assistant's desk to scold him.

后者倏然惊觉，立刻伸手拿起了听筒。
Jolting alert, the assistant grabs the receiver.

格奥尔格：——这还差不多。
Georg: That's more like it.

格奥尔格：……？
Georg: ...?

令他没想到的是，助理原封不动地将听筒放了回去。
To Georg's surprise, his assistant then immediately puts the receiver down.

部长助理：实在是有些吵，部长先生。
Assistant: That was an awful racket, sir.

格奥尔格：你这是什么态度？
Georg: H-How dare you?!

助理从容不迫地看了一眼手表。
The man checks his watch, paying no mind to his superior.

部长助理：我有更要紧的事情要做……不过，也该到时候了。
Assistant: I have more pressing matters to attend to. Yes, it's about time.

他站起身，拿起听筒，故技重施地将其挂断。
He stands up, picks up the receiver again, and hangs it up once more without a word.

格奥尔格：你需要对你的行为做出解释！
Georg: Wh-What? Explain yourself this instant!

格奥尔格：——？
Georg: ...?

部长助理：我不需要再对你做出任何解释，议员先生。
Assistant: Oh, I owe you no explanation, sir.

格奥尔格：谁？
Georg: Who could that be?

部长助理：进来吧。
Assistant: Come in.

格奥尔格：你——？！
Georg: You—?!

向299高地调查员发送的呼叫仍然没有收到回信。
All attempts to reach the investigators sent to Hill 299 have failed.

刻雷乌斯：……
Creius: ...

刻雷乌斯放下通讯器，片刻后，再次抬手，向“猎犬”发出同样的呼叫。
Creius puts his communicator down, pauses, then tries again—this time calling Hound.

听筒中传来的仍然是杂音。
But only static replies.

刻雷乌斯：同样失联了……
Creius: No response, either.

“Ⅻ”小队队长以略有不安的目光审视着从身边经过的政要。
Creius watches the passing politicians with growing unease.

谈判代表：……
Negotiation Representative: ...

结伴而行的代表们并不为刻雷乌斯的目光而侧目。他们保持着体面，把有限的时间投入到国家大事的商讨中。
They don't flinch under Creius's gaze. In fact, they don't seem to pay him any mind at all. Their limited time is devoted to the pressing matters of peace.

帕拉维扬从一幢房屋内走出，快步来到刻雷乌斯身前。
Paravyan exits a nearby building and makes his way to Creius.

“警官”：按照你的要求，新抵达的一批神秘术反制设备已经部署完毕，长官。
"Officer": Sir, a new batch of counter-arcanum devices has been deployed as instructed.

刻雷乌斯：嗯。最近三个小时，你和梅蕾尔有过联系吗？
Creius: Good. Any contact from Merel in the past three hours?

“警官”：没有，她应该还在前线，那边现在有很多小型宴会。
"Officer": No. She's probably still on the front. There's a lot of celebrating going on out there.

刻雷乌斯第三次拿起通讯器，开始呼叫小队内的另一名成员。
Creius tries the communicator once more, this time calling a different squad member.

“沙沙——”
*beep—buzz*

回应他的同样是沙哑的电噪音。
Static.

刻雷乌斯：……这不太对。
Creius: Something's not right.

接着，是第一声枪响。
A shot rings out like a thunderbolt on a cloudless day.

刻雷乌斯：——！
Creius: ...!

警卫士兵Ⅰ：有袭击——！
Security Guard I: We're under attack!

负责保卫代表团的警卫力量很快汇入街道。
Security forces rush into the streets, drawing any wandering delegates inside to safety.

可他们面面相觑，不知道敌人的子弹是从哪里射出来的。
Steel-eyed veterans fan out, searching for the gunfire's source.

警卫士兵Ⅱ：敌人在哪里？
Security Guard II: What's their location?

警卫士兵Ⅰ：我看见了！在那幢房子里，黑色的——
Security Guard I: I saw them! In that house! They're wearing black—

警卫士兵Ⅰ：呃啊——
Security Guard I: Ugrrrgh!

“警官”：他们——
"Officer": I have to—

青年差点就要冲上前去。
The young man begins a charge, only to be held back.

刻雷乌斯：帕拉维扬——回来，和我回指挥所去！通知所有基金会安保，返回预定战斗位置。
Creius: Get back here, Paravyan! We need to get to the command post and inform all security staff to resume combat positions.

“警官”：——是，长官！
"Officer": Yes, sir!

基金会安保向着防备最严格的主要建筑靠拢。
Foundation security regroups around the most heavily guarded buildings.

街道另一边，身穿漆黑军服的人从格奥尔格部长的办公楼中走出。
Across the street, a man in a jet-black uniform exits Georg's makeshift office.

重塑军官：呵……
Manus Officer: Heh ...

他从容不迫地走入开阔地带，浑身漆黑的士兵不断从他的身后涌现。
As he walks into the open, he is flanked by soldiers covered in pitch black.

重塑军官：……终于——这一刻终于到来。
Manus Officer: Finally! No more hiding. The moment of truth has arrived.

他举起一只手，环绕着他的士兵即刻停止行动。
He raises a hand, and the soldiers around him stand at attention.

重塑军官：留下几个基金会的人，我还有话要对这些道貌岸然的哈巴狗说。
Manus Officer: Leave a few of the Foundation lapdogs alive. I have something to say to those sanctimonious hypocrites.

重塑军官：其他人——全部杀光。
Manus Officer: As for the rest, kill them all.

停火协定的签字仪式以一场血腥的屠杀告终。
The ceasefire's signing descends into a bloody firefight.

重塑军官：认真搜索每一座房屋。
Manus Officer: Search every room! Leave no stone unturned!

每隔数十秒，就有某种绵软重物从高处坠落地面的沉闷声响。
Every few seconds, a heavy, soft thud echoes as something limp crashes to the ground from above.

仅有基金会安保据守的房屋内还有抵抗的力量——部署在掩体内的神秘术反制设备为他们提供了片刻喘息之机。
Foundation security offer what resistance they can, the counter-arcanum devices they've deployed providing them with a moment's respite.

重塑军官：——噢，对了，不要破坏他们签字用的桌子，那些文件也最好原封不动地放在那里。
Manus Officer: Oh, but keep that signing desk and the documents on it intact.

重塑军官：那会成为一个绝佳的新闻镜头，我要让它出现在所有报纸的头版。
Manus Officer: It'll make for a great headline shot—perfect for the front page of the papers.

重塑军官：另外，把她带出来吧。
Manus Officer: Now, bring her out.

重塑士兵：……
Manus Soldier: ...

重塑之手的士兵无声地履行命令。在激烈的交火之后，地上也躺满了穿着黑色制服的尸体。
The soldiers of Manus Vindictae carry out their orders in wordless lockstep. Soon bodies in white and black riddle the streets.

片刻后，两名士兵押着人质来到空旷街道的正中央。她清晰地暴露在基金会所占据房屋的视野中。
Moments later, two soldiers march a hostage into the center of the empty street.

基金会安保Ⅱ：唔……
Foundation Security Staff II: Ah ...

重塑军官：安静。
Manus Officer: Quiet.

再一次，军官抬起手，从容不迫地看了一眼手表。
Once again, the assassin-turned-officer raises his hand and checks his watch.

重塑军官：有点晚了……但也不赖。
Manus Officer: Better late than never.

他同样来到主干道上，向前迈着步子，犹如在参与一场盛大的凯旋游行。
He strides forward as if he were participating in a triumphal parade.

军官走到了距离基金会的指挥所只有十步之遥的地方，几乎能听见洁白的旗帜在风中颤抖的声音。
Stopping only a few short paces from the Foundation command post—so near that he can hear the flag fluttering in the wind.

重塑军官：找啊……找啊——看，现在你们终于找到我们了。
Manus Officer: All that endless searching. Heh. Well, here we are—you've finally "caught" us.

他摊开双手，仿佛在展示一件奖品。
He spreads his arm wide like a showman.

重塑军官：为什么事情竟做到了这个地步？为什么我们非要彼此互相杀害不可？
Manus Officer: You might ask, why must things end like this? Why must we kill one another?

重塑军官：因为——我们的哀求、我们的痛苦，统统都被你们无视！
Manus Officer: Do you want to know why? Because our pleas, our pain, our suffering, were all ignored by you!

重塑军官：人类制造了战争，将神秘学家推向战壕与弹坑之中，仿佛我们只是最廉价的消耗品。
Manus Officer: Humans started this war, all these wars, and yet you hurled us—arcanists—onto the front lines like cheap cannon fodder.

重塑军官：人类鄙夷我们的血脉，却又在战争中，命令我们用神秘术去对抗那些钢铁巨兽。
Manus Officer: You have created a world that despises us for our bloodlines and mocks us for our arcane skills, yet you force us to use those very skills to fight the war machines you built.

重塑军官：人类让我们付出惨重的代价，可在战争结束之后，连哪怕一片面包都不肯赏赐给我们。
Manus Officer: You humans have sown untold horrors in the name of conflicts created by your own hand, and still, you refuse us even a single scrap of bread in reward.

重塑军官：这是历史告诉我们的事。所以，我们要终结这对神秘学家来说不太友善的历史。
Manus Officer: These are the lessons history has taught us—a history of arcanist suffering that must end.

他从腰间取出手枪，放在双手中把玩。
He draws a pistol from his waist and toys with it.

重塑军官：所以，当我听到……神秘学家能够联合起来——不再是那种孱弱的抱团取暖的社区团体，而是像军人一样的联合。
Manus Officer: So when I heard that arcanists were uniting—marching under the banner of a formidable army—

重塑军官：……我看到了多少过去不曾有过的希望。
Manus Officer: I caught a glimpse of hope. In fact, it shone like never before.

重塑军官：基金会，人类的走狗——听好了！
Manus Officer: Foundation lapdogs, human scum, mark my words!

重塑军官：这场战争只是一个开始，从今往后，每一个时代人类的秩序与强权都将被颠覆。
Manus Officer: This war has only just begun. From this era onward, the unjust reign of humanity shall be overturned.

重塑军官：每一个于时代受苦的神秘学家，都会团结在重塑之手的旗帜之下。
Manus Officer: All arcanists from every era shall march under the banner of Manus Vindictae.

重塑军官：直到最美好的那个时代降临——！
Manus Officer: Until the ultimate, most glorious era arriv—

一颗子弹穿透军官的太阳穴。
A bullet rips through his temple.

重塑士兵：——！
Manus Soldier: ...!

残余的士兵也应声而倒。
The remaining soldiers drop where they stand.

基金会安保Ⅱ：……是谁？
Foundation Security Staff II: Who did that?

……
...

？？？：……我不喜欢这些和狗有关的低劣比喻，它们实在是太泛滥、太缺乏尊重了。
???: "Lapdogs," eh? Couldn't come up with anything more original?

游荡在外的“猎犬”终于归来。
The stray Hound at last returns.

他来到基金会指挥所的正门前，一脚踢开碍事的军官尸体。
He marches straight through to the command post, kicking the fallen Manus Vindictae officer's corpse for good measure.

“猎犬”：区域安全。
Hound: Command post's clear now.

防备森严的大门敞开，刻雷乌斯出现在他的视线中。
The door swings open, security staff cautiously scanning for trouble. Creius stands inside, waiting.

刻雷乌斯：……你来得有些迟了，叶尔莫莱。
Creius: You're late, Yermolai.

“猎犬”：起码你还活着，不错了。
Hound: At least you're not dead.

他四下环顾，目光与语调一样，总是带着一丝轻佻的讽刺。
Yermolai balks. His voice, like his face, carries a permanent smirk.

“猎犬”：不会永远有人替你擦屁股，刻雷乌斯。
Hound: You won't always have someone around to cover your ass, Creius.

如同之前的大多数对话那般，长官照例无视了下属的挖苦。
As always, Creius finds it easier to simply sidestep his insubordination.

刻雷乌斯：外面发生了什么？
Creius: What have you found?

“猎犬”：简而言之，我们晚了一步。重塑之手的确组建了一支属于自己的军队，不仅是这里，整个前线都有他们的人。
Hound: Long story short, we're a step behind the Manus. They've got an army, launching an assault on the front lines as we speak.

“猎犬”：我们面对的是至少一个旅级的作战单位，甚至也有可能是两个旅。他们藏在299高地下面，全部都是神秘学家。
Hound: We're talking about a force the size of a traditional brigade—possibly even two. They're hiding out beneath Hill 299, and every one of their soldiers is an arcanist.

刻雷乌斯：299高地……查尔斯和阿曼达情况如何？
Creius: Hill 299. Any news on Charles and Amanda?

行动队员收起了部分吊儿郎当的态度。
He lets the swagger drop from his voice.

“猎犬”：我找到他们的时候，两个人都死了。
Hound: Yeah. They're both dead.

“猎犬”：但他们还是想办法留下了关键的调查结果。
Hound: But they did leave behind some critical info.

“猎犬”：重塑之手几乎把299高地给掏了个空，他们在山体内挖掘了一座巨大而完备的地下堡垒设施。
Hound: Turns out Manus Vindictae's built a colossal, full-fledged underground fortress inside Hill 299.

“猎犬”：袭击安全区的人就是从299高地出发的，还有一部分重塑之手的部队正在向前线人类士兵发动攻击。
Hound: That's where all these Manus troops have been coming from—the ones here in the safe zone and the ones sent to eliminate the human soldiers at the front.

刻雷乌斯：是否执行了第二方案？
Creius: Did you carry out the other order?

“猎犬”：求援信息和应急预案已经发给总部，所有我能联系上的在外基金会人员都在向前线指定位置转移。
Hound: Yeah. I've sent the request for reinforcements and your "frontline contingency plan" to headquarters. All available Foundation personnel in the region are moving towards the designated locations on the front.

“猎犬”：不过，我没能联系上梅蕾尔。
Hound: All except Merel. I haven't been able to make contact with her.

刻雷乌斯：……
Creius: ...

长官点头，投出克制的认可。
Creius nods—an understated gesture of approval.

他对梅蕾尔的失联未作评价，似乎这已在他的预料之中。
He says nothing about Merel's radio silence, as if he had anticipated it all along.

“猎犬”：……所以，你真的打算这么做？所谓的“前线应急预案”？
Hound: You're really gonna do this, huh? This so-called "frontline contingency plan"?

刻雷乌斯：我们没多少选择。
Creius: I don't think we have much choice.

“猎犬”：那299高地怎么解决？——这不是预案中料想到的问题。
Hound: How're we gonna deal with Hill 299? It came out of nowhere.

刻雷乌斯：解决意外是执行计划的一部分。
Creius: Every plan has its surprises. We'll deal with it.

刻雷乌斯：……和我到前线去，在路上向我说明详细情况。
Creius: Follow me. We're going to the front lines. You can fill me in on the details on the way.

11TH-19 未至的终结 / A False Dawn

罗尔夫：那是什么？
Rudolph: What's that sound?

罗尔夫放下装满破旧衣物、纪念品与肉罐头的包裹，在胸前，还怀抱着这几年留下来的手稿与笔记。
Rudolph has set about packing his things. Like many in the trenches, he doesn't have much, but his greatest treasure is a pile of manuscripts and notes.

他仰起头，以费解的神色望向火炮声传来的方向。
He lifts his head. A pale look glints behind his glasses.

埃里希：你在这里站着干嘛，罗尔夫。
Erich: What are you standing there for?

罗尔夫：有人开炮……
Rudolph: They're firing again.

埃里希：难道你还没有听习惯吗？
Erich: So? Surely you're used to it by now.

对长期生存在前线的士兵来说，火炮声已经成为一种几近无害的噪音，他们已经能就着这种声音安然入眠。
The rumble of artillery had become so familiar to them that its return is barely noticed.

罗尔夫：可是……不是要停火了吗？就算没有到正式的停火时间，但是……再开炮也没有意义了。
Rudolph: But, isn't there supposed to be a ceasefire? I know it isn't official yet, but there's no point in firing now, is there?

埃里希：嘶——
Erich: Ah!

埃里希倒抽一口气。
Erich draws in a sharp breath.

随之而来的是一声低沉的呼啸。
A low, ominous whistle follows.

埃里希：操！——躲掩体里去！
Erich: S**t! Take cover!

宁静的前线被重新点燃。
All at once, the quiet of the front erupts into fire and fury.

罗尔夫：唔——咳咳——
Rudolph: Ugh ... *cough*

饱受摧残的土地在爆炸的冲击中摇晃，堑壕化为一艘随时将在海浪中倾覆的脆弱航船。
The impact of the explosions shakes the trench lines in unyielding waves, the blasts spraying mud and earth in every direction.

埃里希：他妈的，都疯了？！那帮老东西不是正在谈判吗？
Erich: Damn it! Has everyone gone mad?! Those old farts! I thought they were supposed to be negotiating peace?

罗尔夫：为、为什么——又……又开战了？
Rudolph: Why? Why are we fighting again?

趴在地上的罗尔夫四肢并用，想要抢救被一阵气浪掀飞的行李。
Rudolph sprawls out on the ground, trying to find his baggage, which has been scattered in the blast.

衣服、笔记与罐头……将要带回家乡的一切，化作碎片飞溅而起。
Clothes, notes, and cans are buried in loose dirt or carried off in the air.

罗尔夫：不——
Rudolph: No!

埃里希：别管那些没用的玩意儿了，躲进来！
Erich: Forget that rubbish! Get inside!

埃里希将瘦小的罗尔夫塞进地下掩体内，随后抄起一把潜望镜贴在战壕一侧向外观察。
Erich forces the bespectacled soldier into a dugout, then forces himself up to the parapet, peering over with his periscope.

埃里希：这他妈的……到底是什么人打过来了？
Erich: St! St! Who in the hell is attacking us?

罗尔夫：他们的衣服……不是蓝色，全都是黑色。
Rudolph: I-I don't know. They're not even wearing blue. They're in all black.

埃里希：见鬼的，他们脸上的面具又是怎么回事？他们能看清东西吗？
Erich: Right. Are they wearing masks? Can they even see through them?

观察员：侧翼——
Spotter: *pant* The flank! *pant*

观察员从通向右翼的交通壕中冲出来，不断向各个战壕传递最新的情况。
Scouts and messengers dash in every direction, alerting everyone they can reach of the attack.

观察员：这些人是从侧翼高地冲过来的，不知道是什么鬼东西——
Spotter: I don't know who or what they are, *pant* but they're coming from our flank! *pant*

埃里希：靠！
Erich: Damn it all to hell!

一颗流弹打碎了镜筒，埃里希咒骂着将破损的潜望镜扔到脚边。
A stray bullet shatters his periscope. He tosses the device down with a stream of curses.

他一把抓住路过的观察员。
He grabs a messenger by the collar.

埃里希：把2连的人找来——朝那些黑衣服的东西开火！
Erich: All men from the 2nd Company, assemble! Focus fire on enemies in black uniforms!

进攻暂时停歇了。
Their first assault breaks against the renewed defenses.

大多数身穿黑色制服的士兵将尸体留在了无人区。
But the black-clad soldiers seem numb to their losses; they advance in rigid order, stepping over the dead and dying.

埃里希：这些人都丧失神智了？……一个劲儿地往枪口上撞。
Erich: Have they lost their minds? They just keep charging right into our gunfire.

转过身，谨慎而迅速地越过身旁受伤的战友，在更远处，他能听见受伤士兵们哀嚎的声音。
Erich steps down from the parapet to relay orders; in every direction he sees his comrades lying wounded.

他们都没有想到还要再经受如昨日般炮火的折磨。而这一次，他们仍然不理解战争的含义。
Only yesterday they had begun to believe their fight was over, but the rattling barrage has shattered their dreams—a new war has begun.

埃里希：……天呐，这到底发生了什么？
Erich: Damn it. What the hell is going on?

他在昏暗的壕沟中寻找罗尔夫的下落，却猛然撞上一道高大而醒目的白色身影。
Rudolph hasn't reported back. Concerned, Erich begins to search the dim trenches for his friend, only to bump into a striking figure in a white uniform.

刻雷乌斯：你是2连的连长，对吗？
Creius: Are you the captain of the 2nd Company?

男子提问时不失长官的威严，埃里希一时之间有些不知如何应对。
The man speaks with a gravity of command that Erich still has yet to find.

埃里希：我是。你是……基金会的？
Erich: I am. You're ... with the Foundation?

红发男子点点头，有条不紊地阐明眼下的战况。
Creius nods, articulating the battle at hand in an organized manner.

刻雷乌斯：我是基金会在蒙佩的指挥官，刻雷乌斯，目前我们都遭遇了紧急情况。
Creius: I am Creius, the commander of the Foundation personnel stationed in Montpaix. This is an emergency situation.

刻雷乌斯：重塑之手的军队袭击了安全区，还准备将前线的人类军队一同剿灭。
Creius: Manus Vindictae invaded the safe zone. We neutralized the threat there, but now they're on a mission to kill every human soldier on the front lines.

埃里希：……人类？包括对面的……我们全部人？
Erich: Every human soldier? You-You mean, including those on the other side?

他一时之间有些不明白自己听到了什么。
He struggles to find sense in the words.

刻雷乌斯拍了拍连长的肩膀。
Creius pats the soldier-turned-captain with a firm and steady grip.

刻雷乌斯：如果你们愿意放弃这片阵地的话，可以跟我走。
Creius: If you're willing to give up this position, follow me.

埃里希：我不在乎这该死的阵地，只不过……你想带我们去哪儿？
Erich: I couldn't give less of a damn about positions, but where are we going?

相距不远的另一段战壕。
In a nearby section of trench.

玛尔纱：还有能动的人吗？——来搭把手，我们把这块掩体清理出来。
Marsha: Anyone still standing? Help me clear this bunker!

战地医生几乎是与基金会的队伍一同抵达战壕的。
The field medic arrives in sync with the rest of the Foundation's team.

士兵：医生——医生！有伤兵，快救救他！
Soldier: Doctor! Doctor! My brother—he's wounded! Please!

玛尔纱：医生在这儿——把人送过来！
Marsha: Bring him to me!

士兵拖着受伤的战友来到充做临时急救点的掩体旁。他身下的伤兵拖着一条失去知觉、浸满暗红血液的大腿。
The soldier hauls his wounded comrade to the makeshift aid station. The man's leg hangs limp, soaked in dark red blood.

罗尔夫：……呃——
Rudolph: Urgh ...

玛尔纱：把他放下，好，不要动了——另外，你看到基金会的其他人了吗？
Marsha: Easy. Put him down here. I'll patch him up. Have you seen any other Foundation personnel?

士兵：看、看到过一个红头发的。
Soldier: I-I think I saw one—a redhead.

玛尔纱：好，告诉他让人把急救品都拉到这儿来。他们应该从蒙佩带了不少东西过来。
Marsha: Good. Go tell him we need medical supplies. They should've brought plenty from Montpaix.

士兵：这、这就去！
Soldier: R-Right away!

在他身旁，受伤的士兵正捂着大腿，喘出沉重的呼吸。
Next to them, another soldier clutches his thigh, gasping for breath.

恰在此时，又有一位伤兵被放在临时急救点。玛尔纱略作检查，又回到了大腿受伤的士兵身边。
Only a moment passes before yet another man is carried in. Marsha makes a brief inspection and returns to the soldier with the injured thigh.

玛尔纱：我先给你止血。
Marsha: I'll stop the bleeding first.

罗尔夫：他、他怎么了？
Rudolph: W-What about him?

玛尔纱：他死了。松手，忍住——
Marsha: He's dead. Now relax, and try to stay with me.

罗尔夫：他死——不——
Rudolph: He's dead? No!

罗尔夫：啊啊啊啊——
Rudolph: Ahhhhh!

罗尔夫：我的老天，我要死了，我就要死了——
Rudolph: Good heavens! It's over. I'm dead. I'm dead.

罗尔夫：呃……呃啊……！
Rudolph: Urgh ...

玛尔纱：好，你这会儿死不了了。
Marsha: No, you're not. Not today, anyway.

罗尔夫：呼……呼——
Rudolph: Huff ...

他的视线逐渐模糊，几乎出现了幻觉——他竟然看见一名身穿灰蓝制服的士兵，和自己出现在同一条战壕中。
His vision blurs—for a moment he thinks he sees a soldier in a gray and blue uniform.

罗尔夫：这、这是……
Rudolph: Is-Is that ...?

他昏了过去。
Then he blacks out.

玛丽安娜：怎样，找到刻雷乌斯了吗？
Sentinel: Update? Have you located Creius?

玛尔纱：他已经到战壕了，应该就在不远的地方。
Marsha: He's somewhere in the trench. A soldier spotted him.

男人很快出现在她们面前。
The man soon appears before them.

他以带有敬重的审慎姿态向曾追查过的狙击手点头致意。
With solemn deference, he nods to the sniper he once pursued.

刻雷乌斯：没想到会在这里见——
Creius: I didn't expect to run into—

玛丽安娜：别废话。
Sentinel: Save the pleasantries.

她直截了当地打断对方的客套话。
The response is blunt.

玛丽安娜：情况我听玛尔纱说了。基金会把我叫来，最好是已经有了打算。
Sentinel: Marsha made known to me the situation. The Foundation ought to have a sure plan, having requested me to join her.

玛丽安娜：告诉我，你想让我干什么？
Sentinel: Speak then, what would you have me do?

行动队长很快调整了语气。
Creius adjusts his tone to match.

刻雷乌斯：留在前线的士兵缺乏应对神秘术的武器和训练，无法与重塑之手的部队作战。
Creius: The frontline soldiers have little experience fighting enemies with arcane skills.

刻雷乌斯：我打算把他们带去更安全的战略位置，以免这些毫无准备的人被重塑之手全部歼灭。
Creius: If they stay here, it's only a matter of time until they fall to the Manus. I'm going to move them to a safer strategic position.

刻雷乌斯：但是，299高地把至少8个师钉死在战壕里。重塑之手在山体内修建了地下堡垒，差不多有一万人藏在里面，另外——
Creius: However, enemy forces on Hill 299 have us pinned down in the trenches. Manus Vindictae has turned it into an underground fortress, housing an estimated ten thousand troops. They've even—

刻雷乌斯：——另外还有隐藏在混凝土工事下的火炮阵地。士兵们不能顶着炮火撤退。
Creius: They've even positioned artillery on the hillside. Retreating under that kind of fire would be a death sentence.

玛丽安娜：消除来自高地的威胁，然后把前线的部队撤走，这就是基金会的计划？
Sentinel: Eliminate the threat from Hill 299, then withdraw the troops from the front—this is the Foundation's plan?

刻雷乌斯：不，至少现在还不是。
Creius: Not the Foundation's plan. Not yet, at least.

男人热切的眼神中忽然凝出冰冷的克制。
An icy restraint condenses in the man's eager eyes.

刻雷乌斯：这是我的决定。
Creius: This is my course of action.

玛丽安娜：那你打算怎么摧毁地下堡垒？——就算你能让十万人去送死，也不一定能拿下一座设防的高地。
Sentinel: How do you intend to do this? Even with an army of a hundred thousand at your command, to take a fortified high ground under artillery fire is no surety.

刻雷乌斯：我明白，所以我只能请求你的帮助。
Creius: I know. That's why I need your help.

刻雷乌斯的态度近乎肃穆，他知道自己的请求有多么荒诞。
Creius stands solemn and sure, though he knows how absurd his request sounds.

玛丽安娜：我看不出这项自杀行动有多大的收益。
Sentinel: Such an act is to walk into the valley of the shadow of death. What difference would be made if I lent my aid or withheld it?

刻雷乌斯：如果我没记错的话，石像鬼不容易受到毒气的伤害。
Creius: If I recall correctly, Gargoyles are insusceptible to poison gas.

玛丽安娜：确有此事，你想表达什么？
Sentinel: That's correct. So?

刻雷乌斯：这样的话，我们有其他更安全、代价更小的方式摧毁地堡。请跟我来，我的部下会为你做详细的解释。
Creius: So, we may be able to take a subtler approach. Please, come with me; my subordinate will give you the details.

11TH-20 地狱之门 / Gates of Hell

他们在泥泞中飞速穿梭。
They race through the mud and debris.

玛丽安娜：……还有多远？
Sentinel: How much longer?

“猎犬”：保持速度，十分钟。
Hound: About ten more minutes at this pace.

“猎犬”：如果没有人阻拦，也许不用十分钟。
Hound: Maybe less if there are no interruptions.

玛丽安娜：你很乐观。
Sentinel: Hmph. What an optimist.

“猎犬”：……
Hound: ...

他们不再说话，继续向前。
There isn't anything more to say. They just keep moving.

腐烂与衰败的一切在不断后退。
Until they leave the trench behind.

……
...

玛丽安娜：隐蔽。
Sentinel: Take cover.

他们躲进一处弹坑，一颗子弹落在他们眼前，溅起不少泥点。
They dive into a shell crater. A bullet skips off the lip of earth in front of them, kicking up wet clods of dirt.

玛丽安娜：你来压制他。
Sentinel: Pin them down.

“喀锵——”
*clang*

一颗滚烫的弹壳从机匣中蹦出。
A searing-hot shell casing ejects from the chamber.

玛丽安娜：……解决了。
Sentinel: Threat neutralized.

“猎犬”：枪法不错……事实上，我们到了。
Hound: Nice shot. Right, we've arrived.

叶尔莫莱走向一侧，翻下一截被废弃的战壕。
Yermolai veers off to the side and drops into a stretch of abandoned trench.

石像鬼尾随其后。
Sentinel follows close behind.

他们站在一处紧闭的地下掩体门前。
They stand before a sealed underground bunker.

叶尔莫莱站在距离掩体入口较远的位置上，从外套中取出一捆炸药与一张潦草的地图。
Yermolai stops a short distance from the entrance, pulling from his coat a bundle of explosives and a hastily drawn map.

“猎犬”：拿着它。
Hound: Take these.

玛丽安娜：……
Sentinel: ...

她不发一言地取走“自杀行动”的关键物品。
Without a word, she takes the key items for this suicide mission.

“猎犬”：我很惊讶——你愿意帮这样的忙。
Hound: I'm surprised you'd agree to this.

玛丽安娜：我不会解释我的理由。
Sentinel: I have my reasons.

“猎犬”：那么，再重复一遍计划。
Hound: Sure. Let's go over the plan one more time.

“猎犬”：两位基金会调查员发现299高地堡垒与很多地下通道相连，我们眼下的这条直通重塑之手的弹药库。
Hound: Two of our investigators discovered a number of tunnels running under Hill 299. The one we've just arrived at leads directly to the Manus's ammunition depot.

“猎犬”：开战之后，重塑之手用毒气封锁了所有地下通道，从我找到的尸体判断，这些毒气能穿透现有的防毒面具。
Hound: After the war broke out, the Manus sealed all accessible tunnels with poison gas. Judging by the bodies I found earlier, this gas can penetrate all existing gas masks.

“猎犬”：好处是，因为这些毒气的存在，通道中或许没有多少重塑之手的守军。
Hound: On the bright side, that means there aren't many guards in the tunnels—at least, that's what we think.

“猎犬”：抵达弹药库，引爆炸药，摧毁地堡。然后，基金会将带着士兵撤离。这就是全部的计划。
Hound: Your goal is simple: reach the ammunition depot, detonate the explosives, and destroy the fortress. After that, the Foundation will evacuate with the soldiers.

玛丽安娜：……至少基金会的调查不是一无所获。
Sentinel: Good to know the Foundation's investigation bore some fruit.

“猎犬”：299高地实在是太显眼，以至于容易忽视。
Hound: Hill 299 is so conspicuous that everyone just unconsciously overlooked it.

玛丽安娜：够了。你回去吧。
Sentinel: I'm prepared. You may leave now.

“猎犬”：那么，祝你好运。
Hound: Alright. Good luck.

男人挥手告别。
The man offers a wave.

等到叶尔莫莱离去的声音完全消失之后，玛丽安娜才拉开地下掩体的大门。
Only once Yermolai's footsteps have faded into the distance does Sentinel open the bunker door.

紫红色的毒雾翻涌而出。
Violet-red mist billows out.

玛丽安娜：……
Sentinel: ...

她紧皱着眉，轻嗅一口。
She furrows her brow and takes a cautious sniff.

所幸，和以往一样，她未能感到任何不适。
Thankfully, as before, it has no effect on her.

玛丽安娜听见掩体内传来拖行声，她警觉地守在门边，随后，一道阴影沉默地出现在视野中。
Yet from within, she can hear something dragging. Sentinel holds position at the door, waiting as a shadow shuffles into view.

卡戎：……
Charon: ...

亡者从毒雾中缓缓走出。
A grim figure emerges from the toxic mist.

玛丽安娜：——你怎么在这里？
Sentinel: What are you doing here?

卡戎沉默地将一具尸体拖出掩体，在门外暂时停驻。
Charon drags a corpse out of the shelter and halts outside.

卡戎：一场战争结束，又一场战争爆发……更多人将死于同类之手。
Charon: One war ends, and another begins. More lives will be claimed by their own kind.

卡戎：我仍然做着和以前一样的事。
Charon: I am simply doing what I always do.

玛丽安娜：你早就知道这条路？
Sentinel: You knew of this tunnel?

卡戎：这条……路？我不知道它通向哪里。我看见死亡的阴云笼罩在这片土地上，所以我来到了这里。
Charon: Tunnel? I know nothing of it. The cloud of death hanging above this place—that is what led me here.

亡者不会撒谎。
She knows better than to suspect him.

玛丽安娜：阴云？
Sentinel: Cloud of death?

卡戎：一种模糊的征兆。
Charon: An ambiguous omen.

玛丽安娜：……征兆。那你能否告诉我，这份死亡属于谁？
Sentinel: An omen, hmm. Tell me then, who will this cloud of death fall upon?

卡戎：死亡是平等的，我无法区分不同人的死亡。
Charon: Death is impartial. It doesn't decide who will live and who will die.

玛丽安娜：但我可以。
Sentinel: But I can.

她无所顾忌地在毒雾中深呼吸一口气。
She breathes in the toxic air without concern.

玛丽安娜：我劝你尽快离开这里。如果死的不是我，那么299高地会有一场爆炸。
Sentinel: I suggest you leave. Should this cloud not fall upon me, an explosion will soon obliterate Hill 299.

卡戎：你要杀死高地上重塑之手的驻军吗？
Charon: Do you intend to claim the lives of all the Manus Vindictae troops here?

玛丽安娜：……你想阻止我？
Sentinel: Do you intend to stop me?

卡戎：……
Charon: ...

亡魂无法用言语来回应，他只是静默地沉思着。
He broods for a moment, as a silent war is waged behind his mask.

玛丽安娜：……我该走了，时间不多。
Sentinel: I should leave. Time is pressing.

在她转身的那一刻，卡戎的声音再度在身后响起，他刚刚似乎只是在思索如何回答。
But as she turns, Charon's voice breaks through with sudden clarity.

卡戎：我不希望看见这样的杀戮，但也没有能力阻止。
Charon: I do not wish for such carnage to occur, yet I am powerless to prevent it.

卡戎：不过，在你离开之前，我想要提醒你……
Charon: But before you go, a word of warning ...

卡戎：……你的战争事实上已经结束，你将走向的是另一场争端，另一条更加残酷的道路。
Charon: The war you've been fighting is, in fact, over. What lies before you is a conflict all its own—a much harsher path.

卡戎：你可以转身离去，用一些时间卸下迄今为止积累的负担。
Charon: You still have a chance to turn away from this and relieve yourself of the burdens placed upon you.

玛丽安娜：比起战争中的人们遭受的苦难，我所负担的重量不值一提。
Sentinel: In view of the sufferers of this war, my burden is light.

玛丽安娜：……而我也不会在我选择的道路上迷失。
Sentinel: Harsh or not, I shall not waver from the path I have chosen.

卡戎：你在五年前踏上了战场，这一天与过往的那一日又有什么不同？
Charon: You first set foot on the battlefield five years ago. What makes today different from that day?

玛丽安娜：我知道战争因何而起，也看清楚了敌人的样貌。
Sentinel: I now know the true cause of the conflict, and I have seen the face of the true enemy.

玛丽安娜：……我知道罪恶的道路能完成我的牺牲。
Sentinel: If I must sin to fulfill my sacrifice, then so be it.

卡戎：我不能理解牺牲，以及你执意受苦的意志……但是，作为不凡的生者，你也许拥有不凡的智慧。
Charon: Your willingness to suffer, your passion for sacrifice ... it is beyond me. Perhaps you possess a wisdom beyond my comprehension.

卡戎：而我……只是为你感到悲哀。
Charon: Yet, still, I feel a deep sadness for you.

卡戎：我没有资格阻拦你前进……此处即是地狱之门。
Charon: I am in no position to stop you from walking through the gates of hell.

11TH-21 一小时的政治 / 1-Hour Politics

地下深处，黑暗统治着一切。
Deep underground, darkness reigns.

起初，她在逼仄无光的泥土甬道中穿行，直到跨过一道水泥浇筑的门框。
At first, she travels through cramped, unlit dirt tunnels until she reaches a poured concrete doorframe.

一阵冰冷的回声激荡着，她意识到此刻所处的是一处较为开阔的空间。
Its cold echo tells her she's entered a wider space.

玛丽安娜：行于黑暗之人得见光亮，死荫之地亦有光明照耀。
Sentinel: The people that walked in darkness have seen a great light: they that dwell in the land of the shadow of death, upon them hath the light shined.

她以血脉赐予的力量窥破黑暗，却也因此被迫见证黑暗中所有的秘密与污秽。
She taps into the power of her ancient bloodline, her eyes adjusting rapidly to the pitch black. Yet she finds no comfort in seeing what surrounds her.

玛丽安娜：……
Sentinel: ...

暗沉而黏腻的物质在甬道的壁上流淌，仿佛某种不定形的生物在蠕动。
Dark and viscous substances flow through the walls of the tunnel, like an endless mass of writhing insects.

它们恍惚间构成某种难以辨认的符号，转瞬间又化作混乱不堪的图形。
In their trance, they form some kind of unrecognizable symbols, shifting back and forth into chaotic shapes.

玛丽安娜：亵渎。
Sentinel: Blasphemy.

眼前的一切不足以令她止步——她早已见过更险恶的深渊。
But she has seen far more sinister abysses in her time.

玛丽安娜：高地据点的核心区应该在更靠近山顶的位置。但……这条路似乎是在向下延伸。
Sentinel: The fortress's center ought to be closer to the peak, but this path appears to be extending downward.

她展开叶尔莫莱交给她的地图资料。
She unrolls the map and reads the included intel.

玛丽安娜：不过根据基金会提供的地图，路线并没有出错。
Sentinel: The Foundation's map says this is the route.

暗紫色的气体因闯入者的动作而翻滚着，刺激性的气味持续侵入她的鼻腔。
Plumes of gas tumble with the intruder's movements, stinging her nostrils.

玛丽安娜：不像发霉的干草味，也不是大蒜和芥末的味道。新的毒气。
Sentinel: Not the stench of rotting hay, not garlic or onion, either. This is a new kind of poison gas.

玛丽安娜：不过，对我也没有效用。
Sentinel: Still, it has no effect on me.

你在哪里？
Where art thou?

空灵的呼唤声悠然落下。
An ethereal voice drifts down.

玛丽安娜：——艾格尼丝。
Sentinel: Agnès.

玛丽，你听得到吗？——我听不见你的声音。
Dost thou hear me, Marie? I heareth naught from thee.

玛丽安娜：你……听不见？
Sentinel: You hear me not?

她仰起头，只看见向下压迫着的沉重穹顶。
She looks up, seeing nothing but the vaulted ceiling.

艾格尼丝的声音溶解在致死的毒雾中，在耳旁如同蜂鸣。
Agnès's voice is like a biting acid in her ears.

你到哪里去了，玛丽？你在很深很深的地方，被我所不能看清的东西包围。
Where hast thou gone, Marie? I sense thou art somewhere deep below the earth, surrounded by that which I cannot clearly see.

玛丽安娜：……
Sentinel: ...

玛丽安娜：地上有很多尸体，艾格尼丝，他们倒在金属残骸与水泥块之间。
Sentinel: Bodies lay scattered around me, Agnès. Many of them.

玛丽安娜：杀死他们的是毒气，也许在一小时前，他们正准备逃离这座坑洞。
Sentinel: They're Manus soldiers. It appears they attempted to flee through this tunnel but an hour ago.

她越过一道残骸。
She steps over debris.

玛丽安娜：可他们都是重塑之手的士兵……他们的长官为了堵住道路，释放了可以杀死自己人的毒气。
Sentinel: Their superior blocked their way and loosed upon them this poison gas, killing his own men.

她跨过一双圆睁的眼。
Bodies stare up at her from unblinking eyes.

玛丽安娜：我在面对的究竟是怎样的敌人，艾格尼丝？
Sentinel: What kind of enemy am I soon to face, Agnès?

……你害怕吗？
Art thou afraid?

玛丽安娜：——
Sentinel: ...

你一定对我说了很多话，玛丽。我没有离开，我在等你说完。
Thou must have spoken much, Marie. I shall not leave thee. I am listening.

只是……我仍然听不见你的声音。
Only I yet hear not thy voice.

玛丽安娜：……
Sentinel: ...

我记得我们一起躲在庄园的地下墓穴，你告诉我你才不会害怕奶奶说过的鬼怪故事。
Dost thou recall the day we hid together in the catacombs of the manor? Thou said unto me thou feared not the ghostly tales thy grandmother once spake.

你说，你是比它们更可怕的魔鬼。但那天夜里，我注意到你的呼吸，在颤抖。
Thou saidst thou bore a devil more terrifying than any tale. But on that night, thy breath did tremble—thou wert afraid.

她停在继续向下的阶梯入口。
She halts at the descending stairway.

玛丽安娜：不是这样的，艾格尼丝。
Sentinel: That was not the thing of which I was afraid, Agnès.

又一次，她意识到头顶厚重的岩层隔断了她想传递的话语。
Once again, she realizes her words cannot reach beyond the heavy rock above.

在黢黑深邃的另一端，仿佛有什么东西正在等待。它伸出黑色的尖爪。
From the depths of that pitch-black void, something waits, stretching out sharp, black claws.

我在害怕，玛丽，你面前的道路已经没有亮光，你离我越来越远。
I worry for thee, Marie. The path that thou dost walk holdeth no light. I can feel thee growing ever more distant from me.

有时我不懂你要做什么，但我会相信你。只是，记得回来好吗？
Whatsoever it is—whatever thou dost wish to do, I know thou art determined to see it to its end. But I pray thee, make haste and come unto us soon, wilt thou?

……我将为你的灵魂祈祷。
Until that time, I shall pray for thy soul.

石化的浪潮在她身上蔓延。
Waves of cold stone scrape over her skin as she readies herself for battle.

她向下，迈入无光的黑暗。
Then begins her journey down.

在火力稍微停歇的间隙，叶尔莫莱回到了战壕。
In a brief lull between volleys, Yermolai returns to the trenches.

他很快在众多灰色军装中找到了自己的长官。
It's little trouble to find his commander in the sea of gray uniforms.

刻雷乌斯：……机枪火力点必须留在原地，我们已经和对面的守军取得联系，他们会在下次攻势中与我们共同组成火力网。
Creius: To summarize, your troops must stay in place for the time being. We've made contact with the other side. They'll cooperate with you to create a fire network against the enemy.

埃里希：但愿他们真的会配合。
Erich: Let's hope they do cooperate.

刻雷乌斯：重塑之手对人类发动了战争，我们必须共渡难关。
Creius: Manus Vindictae has waged war against all humankind. We must work together if we're to get through this.

失去长官的新任连长烦闷地敲了敲钢盔，咬着嘴唇，从基金会行动队长面前离开。
Erich knocks his helmet with frustration as he leaves, chafing against his orders, burdened by the lives placed in his care. Wishing now, more than ever, that he was just a soldier again.

叶尔莫莱迎上去。
Yermolai steps forward.

“猎犬”：这会儿由你来当军官了？
Hound: So you're their commander too now, huh?

刻雷乌斯：我已经说服部分士兵与基金会合作。
Creius: All I did was convince them to work with the Foundation.

“猎犬”：你不能代表基金会，基金会还没有通过你的方案，给你授权。
Hound: But you don't represent the Foundation—not without proper authorization for your plan.

刻雷乌斯：此时此刻，在这些绝望的士兵面前，我可以代表基金会。
你的任务完成没有？
Creius: The soldiers are desperate. I won't hesitate to do what I must to restore their hope. What's the status on your mission?

“猎犬”：石像鬼已经在向目标地点出发了，保守估计还要再等一个小时。
Hound: The Gargoyle's en route to the target location as we speak. Conservative estimate says she'll take another hour to get there.

“猎犬”的语调变得暗哑。
Hound's voice comes out low and hoarse.

“猎犬”：……但我们不知道地下到底有什么，她可能会死。
Hound: But who knows what she'll come up against? She might not make it.

刻雷乌斯：我没想到你在这个时候会心生怜悯。
Creius: Unusual for you to show compassion in such a moment.

“猎犬”：我只是想起一些令人生厌的事，刻雷乌斯。
Hound: It just brings back unpleasant memories. You know what I'm talking about, Creius.

下属的嘴角勾起一丝毫不掩饰的嘲讽，而长官只是面不改色地无视了这支小插曲。
That wolfish grin returns to Hound's face, and Creius ignores it once more.

刻雷乌斯：那就再等一个小时。
Creius: Then we'll wait one more hour.

刻雷乌斯：那时基金会的援军应该也快到了……我们可以再想办法。
Creius: The Foundation's reinforcements will likely have arrived by then. Should it come to it, we will regroup and consider our next steps with them.

“猎犬”：呵——如果真有支援的话。
Hound: Heh, if there really are reinforcements, that is.

刻雷乌斯：新的攻势来了，准备防御。
Creius: They're launching a second offensive! Hold your ground!

燃烧的微粒被热浪掀上半空，随后化为灰烬，如雪花般纷纷洒落战场。
Charred earth splinters in the air, falling like black snow over the battlefield.

士兵们经受了又一次冲击。他们散在战壕中，神色木然地紧紧抱着胸前的武器。
The soldiers reel from another shockwave. Scattered across the trenches, they grip their weapons tight, certain only of the coming battle.

刻雷乌斯：……
Creius: ...

男人的食指在枪机上敲出微弱的声响。
His index finger taps his rifle's receiver with anticipation.

他再一次拿出通讯器，等待着。
He pulls out his communicator again and waits.

“哔哔——”
*beep-beep*

刻雷乌斯：……终于。
Creius: Finally ...

“鹰派”领袖伊里内伊的名字出现在屏幕上。
The name Irinei appears on screen.

伊里内伊：——刻雷乌斯，你还在前线吗？
Irinei: Creius, are you still on the front?

刻雷乌斯：是，伊里内伊委员。我能坚守的时间不多了。
Creius: Yes, Mr. Irinei, but I don't think we can hold out much longer.

刻雷乌斯：委员会有决定了吗？
Creius: Has the Committee reached a decision?

伊里内伊：他们仍在争吵不休，你的“前线应急预案”对“鸽派”来说太过荒唐，他们不愿意接受接管军队带来的政治风险。
Irinei: Not yet; the debate is still ongoing. The Doves find your "frontline contingency plan" absurd. They disapprove of the political risks involved in taking control of various nations' armies.

伊里内伊：不过……就我个人而言，我想问，你是否明确地知道自己想要达成什么目的？
Irinei: But I personally find it feasible. Just to be sure, do you have a clear understanding of your ultimate goal?

刻雷乌斯无声地深吸一口气。
He takes a deep, silent breath.

刻雷乌斯：重塑之手对基金会发动了一场跨时代的战争，它必然要进行到其中的一方彻底灭亡为止。
Creius: This war between Manus Vindictae and the Foundation will only end once one of the two parties is completely destroyed.

刻雷乌斯：而我不希望基金会成为失败的那一方。
Creius: And I refuse to let it be the Foundation.

刻雷乌斯：如今的芝诺不足以应对这场战争，基金会需要扩充兵力。目前仍然留在前线的士兵是我们最直接的希望。
Creius: If we're to prevail, the Foundation cannot rely on Zeno alone. We need more capable soldiers—soldiers like these on the front lines.

刻雷乌斯：他们中的一些人也许会同意加入基金会，继续与重塑之手作战。
Creius: With the proper arrangements, we may be able to recruit them to our cause. We'd have a whole new army to fight Manus Vindictae.

伊里内伊：即使如此，你能带回来的人数也相当有限。十万人不足以维持一场现代战争。
Irinei: But even if you manage to bring them all—say, one hundred thousand soldiers—on board, it still won't be enough to sustain modern warfare.

刻雷乌斯：我提出的不是一个局部战术，它需要在战略层面上执行。基金会应该派人收拢所有遭到重塑之手攻击的人类军队。
Creius: This is about the bigger strategic picture, not just a single recruitment effort. I'm suggesting that the Foundation start canvassing all human armies, especially those under attack by the Manus.

伊里内伊：战略层面……你考虑过这些军队所属的国家会做出什么反应吗？
Irinei: Bigger strategic picture. What about the governments behind these armies? Have you considered how they might react?

刻雷乌斯：重塑之手的进攻会让人类国家意识到，基金会是他们最后的依靠。
Creius: It's about time they realized that the Foundation is their only hope—the last bastion for humanity to unite against their shared enemy.

刻雷乌斯：何况……我们无法为一个错谬的时代负责。下一次“暴雨”降临时，这个时代的一切都会消逝。
Creius: The Foundation cannot take responsibility for all the lives in this era or in any other. The "Storm" is a near inevitability, and so too is the loss of many.

刻雷乌斯：但重塑之手一定会把战争带向新的时代。基金会必须要保有一支能够跨越“暴雨”的军队。
Creius: Once it does come, the Manus won't hesitate to drag war into that new era—into any new era. It's time the Foundation took action and built an army capable of crossing the "Storm."

伊里内伊：……
Irinei: ...

通讯另一头的政客陷入了长时间的沉默。
The politician on the other end falls into a long silence.

伊里内伊：按你的想法去做，刻雷乌斯。
Irinei: Enact your plan, Creius.

伊里内伊：只要你能先取得成功，那么……
Irinei: As long as you're successful on your end ...

伊里内伊：……我会解决政治问题。
Irinei: I will deal with the political obstacles in your way.

通讯被挂断。
The call is cut.

男人长舒一口气。
Creius exhales.

“警官”：下一步怎么做，长官？
"Officer": What next, sir?

青年注视着刻雷乌斯，忠诚地等待新的指令。
The young soldier watches Creius, waiting for orders with a dutiful stare.

刻雷乌斯：……
Creius: ...

他望向299高地，除了持续不断的炮火声外，重塑之手的阵地仍然没有任何动静。
He casts a look toward Hill 299. The Manus Vindictae stronghold bristles with flashes of gunfire, yet to him it looks as if it were a slumbering beast.

刻雷乌斯：……再坚持一个小时。
Creius: We stand our ground for an hour.

11TH-22 硫磺火 / Brimstone and Fire

艾格尼丝的声音已经消散无踪，耳畔只有难以辨认的嗡鸣。
Though Agnès's voice has vanished, the sharp ringing in her ears remains.

玛丽安娜：……什么声音？
Sentinel: What's that sound?

她将更多的注意力投向声音来源的方向，黑暗如帷幕般被切开——本不该出现的阴影正潜伏在一块残骸之后。
She casts more attention in the direction of the source of the sound, and the darkness is sliced like a curtain—a shadow that shouldn't be there is lurking behind a piece of wreckage.

？？？：……咳咳——呃——呃……
???: *cough* Ugh ...

他趴在地上，用淌着鲜血的手指在地面绘出杂乱无章的印记。
He lies prone, using bloodied fingers to scrawl erratic symbols across the ground.

？？？：……
???: ...

当闯入者接近时，他缓缓抬起头。
As the intruder draws near, he slowly raises his head.

玛丽安娜：又是你。
Sentinel: Oh. It's you.

施特林：凶手，恶鬼！你害死了我，害死了科尔腾，欧根……欧根也被你杀了。
Sterling: You! You murderer! You murdered me. You murdered Kolten. *cough* You murdered Eugen too!

施特林：可恨的魔鬼，杀人魔……
Sterling: You devil! You murderous demon—

施特林：啊——
Sterling: Aaagghh!

玛丽安娜：我不介意再来一次。
Sentinel: I have no qualms in doing so again.

近乎凝固的黑色“血液”在地面漫延。
Thick, congealed black blood spreads across the ground.

玛丽安娜：幻觉……可悲的把戏。
Sentinel: Pathetic illusions.

玛丽安娜：还有人。
Sentinel: Incoming attack.

玛丽安娜：身后。
Sentinel: From behind.

玛丽安娜：右前。
Sentinel: From the right.

玛丽安娜：脚下。
Sentinel: From below.

玛丽安娜：就在眼前——
Sentinel: Right before me!

士兵？：——！
Soldier?: ...!

石化的尖爪迅速而精准地钳住了柔软的脖颈，敌人被拎到半空中，双手徒劳地抓挠着石像鬼粗硬的手臂。
Petrified claws clamp down on his soft neck with precision, pulling him up into mid-air, his hands clawing against the chokehold.

士兵？：呃——放了我……求——你——
Soldier?: Ghk ... Let me go, please.

她不断施加的力量停顿了一秒，在仅有一个喘息的间隙，渴望摆脱钳制的士兵从腰间抽出一把尖锐的匕首。
She eases her grip if only for the length of a breath, yet the soldier seizes the moment for all he's worth, drawing a blade from his belt.

士兵？：……咕唔！
Soldier?: Urgh!

她来到了绽放死亡之花的苦难之地。
She arrives at the land where the flower of death blooms.

玛丽安娜：……
Sentinel: ...

尸横遍野。
Corpses are strewn across the ground.

一个身影在那尽头等待她的到来。
A figure waits at the far end.

重塑军官？：你究竟杀了多少人？——这些死于你之手的人都是神秘学家，你的同胞。
Manus Officer?: How many have you killed? Do you even keep count? Remember, they were all arcanists like you.

玛丽安娜：这与种族无关。
Sentinel: Race is of no matter.

重塑军官？：我喜欢这个回答。杀戮只是杀戮，与弱者毫无关系。
Manus Officer?: Hm. So the killer does the killing, and the dead have no say at all. I like it.

一颗子弹穿透了军官的心脏。石像鬼没有费神去反驳他的话。
A bullet rips through the officer's heart. A simple, blunt retort.

她前进一步，发现同样的人站在自己面前。
She steps forward, only to find the figure standing before her once again.

重塑军官？：还要往前走吗？
Manus Officer?: Haven't had enough?

玛丽安娜：让开。
Sentinel: Begone.

玛丽安娜：终有一日，我会亲手将你送回地狱，永堕烈焰与熔岩之所。
Sentinel: One day, I shall personally deliver you to the fires of hell where you belong.

重塑军官？：看来你知晓我的身份。
Manus Officer?: Oh. It sounds like you know who I am.

玛丽安娜：不要以为我会被你借用的外表所蒙蔽，我知道你一直都缠绕在我的家族之血中——
Sentinel: Do not think me deceived by your disguise. I am well aware that your taint has long been tangled in the blood of my family.

石像鬼们：——恶魔。
Gargoyles: Demon.

玛丽安娜：拉蒂斯？
Sentinel: Ladislas?

她虔诚的堂兄出现在地狱之中。
Her devout cousin appears in the midst of this strange hell.

拉蒂斯：堂亲，我为你带来最后的警告……你与堕落的距离不远了，过去数年的杀戮已经让你站在地狱深渊的边缘。
Ladislas: Dear cousin, I bring thee a final warning. Thou art but a step away from utter corruption. Thou hast killed many in the years past, and now thou dost stand at the edge of the abyss.

拉蒂斯：你也许不了解那些堕落的先祖经历了怎样的折磨，他们的良知和信仰全都被摧毁，只留下永不停止的嗜血欲望。
Ladislas: Hast thou not understood the suffering endured by our fallen ancestors? Their conscience crumbled, their faith shattered, leaving naught but an insatiable thirst for blood.

拉蒂斯：我不希望你也走上一样的道路。
Ladislas: It paineth me to see thee walk that same wretched path.

“恶魔”彬彬有礼地站在远处，等到教士说完之后才再度开口。
The demon stands to the side with unhinged politesse, waiting until Ladislas has finished speaking before speaking again.

“恶魔”：我从不引诱任何人。
The Demon: Well, don't blame me. I did nothing to entice her.

它的声音仿佛不再是从眼前的这一具身躯中发出，而是来自黑暗天空的遥远尽头。
Its voice no longer seems to come from the body before her but from some faraway place in the darkened sky.

“恶魔”：是玛丽安娜自己做出的选择，她的双手早已浸在血泊之中。
The Demon: Marianne made this choice herself. Her hands have long been soaked in blood.

“恶魔”：可她自始至终都没有被所谓的负罪感所困，这是我钟爱她的理由。
The Demon: And yet, she has never been troubled by that so-called "guilt" of yours. I've come to adore her for that.

拉蒂斯：也许你选的道路能拯救泥淖中的人们，但这个人不能是你，堂亲。
Ladislas: Perhaps it is true that this path of carnage shall save many lives, but why, I pray, must it be thee who walkest it?

拉蒂斯：我们流淌着不洁的血液，太多的杀戮注定会让灵魂落入万劫不复的深渊。
Ladislas: Our blood beareth an impurity like no other. To kill so many is to will thyself to the bottom of the abyss, never to return.

拉蒂斯：这一次你将带走的是上万人的生命，他们中有多少误入歧途的无辜者？
Ladislas: The ten thousand thou art soon to kill—consider, I pray—how many among them are innocent victims of deception and coercion?

拉蒂斯：杀死他们的罪孽，会比你过去所积累的还要多。
Ladislas: The weight of so many lives shall weigh upon thee in far greater measure than any sin thou hast yet borne. What good shall it profit thee to gain the whole world, yet forfeit thy soul?

“恶魔”：你也在计算生命的数量吗，拉蒂斯？
The Demon: Did I hear that right? Are you also calculating the lives, Ladislas?

拉蒂斯：——！
Ladislas: ...!

拉蒂斯：停、停止你的污言秽语！
Ladislas: Speak no more of thy filthy words!

“恶魔”：我愚昧的孩子……
The Demon: Oh, you silly, stubborn child.

“恶魔”以优雅的步态接近拉蒂斯。
The demon approaches Ladislas with sharp, graceful steps.

拉蒂斯：你想做什么，邪恶的——呃——！
Ladislas: What art thou ... O wicked dem—Rrghk!

教士的喉咙被一双手死死掐住。
His throat is seized in both hands.

拉蒂斯：唔——你——玛丽安……
Ladislas: Urggh ... Thou ... Marie ...

拉蒂斯：……
Ladislas: ...

“恶魔”松开手，拉蒂斯的躯体倒在地上的众多尸体之间。
The demon releases its grip. Ladislas's body collapses among the other corpses.

玛丽安娜以审视的目光看着眼前的这一幕。
Sentinel watches the scene with a probing gaze.

“恶魔”：——还是我来帮你做这件事吧，玛丽安娜。这个疯子，实在是太吵闹了。
The Demon: There, I silenced the noisy fool for you, Marianne.

玛丽安娜：你的表演毫无意义。
Sentinel: Such pantomime shall not move me.

玛丽安娜：他只是一个有形无实的幻影，残留在我脑海中的声音。
Sentinel: This "Ladislas" was naught but an echo lingering in my mind. An illusion.

“恶魔”：可我不是，我是永远与你共生的本性。
The Demon: Oh, but I'm not. I am your very nature. The core of your being.

大地在颤动，打破了血腥而短暂的宁静。
The ground shakes, and their bloody silence is shattered.

“恶魔”毕恭毕敬地后退一步让出道路，它先向石像鬼投去一抹阴沉的微笑，随后扭头张望。
The demon makes way for her, casting a grim smile at the Gargoyle before turning its head to look around.

在它身后，一支庞大的军团正轰鸣着赶赴战场。
As an army rumbles into view.

先头的装甲部队碾过残破的尸体，怪异的引擎声愈发清晰。
The strange sound of engines grows clearer as the armored vanguard grinds over mangled corpses.

“恶魔”：看来重塑之手发现了你的到来。
The Demon: Oh, Manus Vindictae. They've finally noticed you.

恶魔转过身去，背向玛丽安娜。
The demon turns its back to Sentinel.

“恶魔”：——不过，这些可悲的敌人没有击败我们的力量。
The Demon: What a shame. They don't stand a chance against our ferocity, do they, Marianne?

玛丽安娜握紧手中的枪，未与“恶魔”同行，也没有转身离去。
She grips her gun, neither joining the demon, nor turning away.

她轻吻冰冷的枪机。
She presses a kiss to the cold receiver.

玛丽安娜：……我看见罪人将灵魂出卖给恶魔，他们行过的土地皆滋生恶果。
Sentinel: I have seen sinners forsake themselves in service of the devil. The land they trod upon yielded only bitter, cursed fruit.

“恶魔”：来吧——
The Demon: Come!

玛丽安娜：现在，忏悔的时间已过。
Sentinel: But the hour for repentance has long since passed.

“恶魔”：与我一起——
The Demon: Come with me!

玛丽安娜：天上——降下了硫磺与烈火！
Sentinel: Then the Lord rained upon them brimstone and fire!

“恶魔”：——毁灭他们！
The Demon: Let's kill them all—together!

玛尔纱：……
Marsha: ...

玛丽安娜：玛尔纱？
Sentinel: Marsha?

骑士站在风车下，黑色的战马在草地中悠然踱步。
Marsha stands beneath a windmill. Her black warhorse pacing idly in the grass.

玛尔纱：我总觉得，我永远不会忘记这座风车和原野。
Marsha: I don't think I'll ever forget this windmill—the calm of this field.

玛尔纱：第一次来的时候，我居然没有感到惊讶——战争中怎么会有这样一片宁静的土地。
Marsha: I can't believe I didn't appreciate how peaceful this place was the first time I came here.

她闭上眼，深吸一口饱含青草芬芳的空气。
She closes her eyes and breathes in the sweet scent of the meadow.

玛尔纱：也许是因为土地本身就是宁静的，人的生活也应该是……我们以为战争已经结束，一切都会重归安宁。
Marsha: Perhaps it's because the land was quiet, just like our lives once were. And back then, we thought everything would be peaceful again once the war was over.

玛丽安娜：对不起。
Sentinel: I'm sorry.

玛尔纱：你怎么又在道歉？
Marsha: Why? There's no need to apologize.

玛丽安娜：我差点杀了你……不，事实上，对我来说，我的确杀了你……和其他我杀害的人一样。
Sentinel: I was nigh on killing you. No, in a way, I did kill you, just as I have killed so many others.

玛尔纱：这不是我们任何人的错。
Marsha: It's not our fault. None of this is …

玛丽安娜：也许你能原谅我，可……那些永远失去生命的人，我没有机会，也没有资格得到他们的原谅。
Sentinel: You may have granted me your forgiveness, but those who have forever lost their lives due to my actions—I shall never have the chance, nor the right, to earn theirs.

玛尔纱：我们没有发动战争，却饱受战争带给我们的苦难。
Marsha: We didn't start this war. Yet, we have had to bear the brunt of the pain it has caused.

玛尔纱：如果战争中的这一切罪恶最终还要加在我们身上，这种不公……
Marsha: If all the sins of war are laid at our feet, where's the fairness in that?

玛尔纱：我不能接受。
Marsha: No. I refuse to accept it.

骑士为不公而愤懑。
Marsha seethes at injustice.

玛尔纱：玛丽，等真正的和平到来之后……
Marsha: Marie, perhaps when peace finally comes ...

一阵风卷走了她的声音。
A gust carries her voice away.

玛丽安娜：……？
Sentinel: ...?

风势越来越大，她能听见老旧风车发出的“吱嘎”声。
The wind howls, and in it she hears the creaking of the old windmill.

玛尔纱：……
Marsha: ...

玛丽安娜沿着小路向前走，想要与她站得更近些……
Sentinel walks along the path, wanting to stand closer to her.

——直到眼前的一切陡然被炮火撕裂。
—until the scene is torn apart by gunfire.

玛丽安娜：——玛尔纱！
Sentinel: Marsha!

士兵？：去死！
Soldier?: Die!

士兵？：啊……呃啊——
Soldier?: Arrgh ...

军团中的最后一人痛苦地倒下，残骸遍地的无人区在遥远的嗡鸣声中陷入寂静。
Wreckage is strewn over no man's land. The last of the assembled force falls with a gurgling scream that ushers in the silence of death.

玛丽安娜：……
Sentinel: ...

恶魔与石像鬼并肩而立，共同观望眼前遍布死亡的土地。
The demon and the Gargoyle stand side by side, looking over the destruction.

“恶魔”：鲜血汇为湖海，颅骨堆成山岳。一切憎恶的被灭绝，一切贪求的被夺取。
The Demon: Take it all in, Marianne—the pools of blood, the piled corpses, the lingering echoes of the dead, their whimpering, desperate cries.

“恶魔”：多少年过去了……我未能看见如此盛大的血祭。玛丽安娜，你已唤醒了最古老的本性。
The Demon: Aahh. How long has it been since I last witnessed such a beautifully gruesome massacre? The ancient bloodlust within you truly has awakened.

“恶魔”：你已经杀尽了阻拦你的敌人。来吧，把炸药交给我。
The Demon: You slaughtered every last one of them. Well done. Now, hand me the explosives. It's time to end them all.

“恶魔”伸出双手，讨要那件能夺走一万人生命的武器。
The demon holds out his hands, asking for the weapon that will take the lives of 10,000 men.

玛丽安娜：……可悲的东西。
Sentinel: Get thee behind me, Demon.

“恶魔”：你仍有权力二选其一。一个选择有一万条生命之重，而另一个的重量则有十倍胜之。
The Demon: I won't force you. The choice is still yours. So, which will it be? The weight of ten thousand lives, or one that is ten times harder to bear?

“恶魔”：当然，十万人的死亡并不与你直接相关，你无需为他们负责，只不过……
The Demon: Well? Their blood will be on your hands, that's for certain, but the responsibility won't rest on you alone. Your soon-to-be-blood-soaked hands have been forced.

“恶魔”：你、只能、二选其一。
The Demon: These are the only choices you have left.

玛丽安娜：……
Sentinel: ...

石像鬼取下那一捆沉重的炸药，握在手中。
The Gargoyle removes the bundle of heavy explosives and grasps them as tightly as if they were prayer beads.

玛丽安娜：……我没有能力洗净血液中的污秽，如同我无法卸下早已承受的罪孽。
Sentinel: I am powerless to cleanse the filth that muddies my blood, just as I am powerless to erase the sins I have already borne.

玛丽安娜：我知道我已经堕入地狱，古老的邪恶在我的灵魂中生长。
Sentinel: I have descended into the depths of hell—I know that. And this ancient darkness has already taken root in my soul.

玛丽安娜：可是，如果牺牲一人就可以拯救十人，牺牲一万人，可以拯救十万人……如果必须有人做出选择……
Sentinel: But if sacrificing one can save ten, if sacrificing ten thousand can save a hundred thousand, if someone must make that impossible choice ...

玛丽安娜：我可以背负选择的罪恶。
Sentinel: Then I am willing to bear that sin.

最终，炸药被交给“恶魔”。
She hands the explosives over to the demon.

“恶魔”：这就对了。从此以后，我会与你结伴而行，赐予你更强大的——
The Demon: That's the spirit. From now on, we will walk together, side by side, a greater power as one—

话音未落，刺刀捅穿了它的身体。
Before he can say anything, the bayonet stabs through his body.

“恶魔”：……？！
The Demon: …?!

玛丽安娜抽出刺刀，将“恶魔”推开，后者踉踉跄跄地退到更远的地方。
Sentinel pulls out her bayonet and pushes the demon away, who staggers further back.

“恶魔”：……
The Demon: ...

“恶魔”：真有意思……你知道这伤不了我，玛丽安娜，这一切又是为了什么？
The Demon: You are fascinating, Marianne. You know this won't harm me. So, why did you do it?

石像鬼发出沉重的喘息。
She lets out a heavy labored breath.

玛丽安娜：看清我，“恶魔”，我不是你熟悉的那些先祖，受到引诱而在嗜血的欲望中无法自拔。
Sentinel: Look upon me, Demon. I am not like my ancestors, to be led astray by their thirst for blood and your honeyed words.

玛丽安娜：无论我做出什么选择，都与你毫无关系，这一切都出自我自己的意志。
Sentinel: Whatever choice I make, I make of my own free will.

玛丽安娜：……我会夺取你的力量，而你，没有资格号令我的灵魂。
Sentinel: I will not let your taint spread within my soul, yet still, your power shall be mine to command.

“恶魔”：呵呵……
The Demon: Heh-heh ...

“恶魔”：哈哈……哈哈哈哈哈——
The Demon: Haha ... Hahahahaha!

伪造的“身体”消失了，恶魔在地狱中发出狂笑。
The figure vanishes, yet she can still feel the demon cackle madly from the depths of hell.

你是一个纯粹的天才，玛丽安娜。残酷的杀手，贪婪的魔鬼——
You truly are a genius, Marianne. A ruthless killer, a greedy devil ...

——我最钟爱的孩子！
And my most worthy child!

来吧，让我们在地狱中称王！
Join me! Let us reign together in hell!

玛丽安娜：艾格尼丝，小时候，我不明白你给我读的那些故事——为什么有人可以背负世人的一切罪孽？
Sentinel: Agnès, when I was young, I never truly understood the words you spake. Why would one man willingly bear the sins of all the world for the sake of others?

玛丽安娜：如果有人要将一切罪责与痛苦都交给我，那该是多么的不公与不幸……
Sentinel: I lingered on the thought of it—if all guilt and suffering were placed upon me, how cruel and unjust that would be.

玛丽安娜：但现在，我想……所幸它们最终也都交给了我。
Sentinel: But now I think, perhaps it is best that they are mine alone to bear.

玛丽安娜：……
Sentinel: ...

玛丽安娜：对不起，艾格尼丝。
Sentinel: I'm sorry, Agnès.

Wir kommen hier raus, Bruder! Komm schon!：<color=white>没事了，兄弟，快过来吧。 <color=white>106团第3营的的士兵，请到我这里来！Soldiers of the 3rd Battalion, 106th Regiment, with me! <color=white>我们……得救了？W-Wir sind gerettet? <color=white>没错，让我看看——还能站起来，好样的，我们快一起离开这鬼地方。Ganz genau. Na los ... gut, du kannst noch stehen. Lass uns diese verdammten Schützengräben hinter uns lassen! <color=white>我找到他了，他还活着！Je l'ai trouvé ! Il est encore en vie ! <color=white>把他带过来，快！我们一起走。Amène-le avec toi ! Vite ! <color=white>重伤员——重伤员先送到急救站处理伤势！所有急救人员都到我这里来。Multiple severely wounded over here! All available medics with me! We have to get them to the dressing station! <color=white>你能站起来吗？Tu peux te lever ? <color=white>你是谁……我、我听不懂你在说什么。W-Wer bist du? I-Ich verstehe nicht, was du sagst. <color=white>小心穿越无人区——我们正在剪除铁丝网，请稍作等待！Tread carefully; we're crossing no man's land! Hold strong while we cut the barbed wire! <color=white>来，跟上基金会的人，我们走——快起来！Là, on peut suivre les gens de la Fondation. Allez, ressaisis-toi !
刻雷乌斯: ——所有行动人员：299高地已被摧毁，重塑之手的威胁已解除。刻雷乌斯: 按原定计划撤离。刻雷乌斯: 重塑之手的堡垒已被摧毁，我已成功带领部队向后方防线撤退。刻雷乌斯: 我明白……感谢您关键时刻的支持，伊里内伊先生。
<color=white>We're getting out of here, brother! Come on! <color=white>Soldiers of the 3rd Battalion, 106th Regiment, with me! <color=white>W-We're saved? <color=white>That's right. Alright, good, you can still stand. Let's leave these damn trenches behind. <color=white>I've found him! He's still alive! <color=white>Bring him with you! Hurry! <color=white>Multiple severely wounded over here! All available medics with me! We have to get them to the dressing station! <color=white>Can you stand? <color=white>Wh-Who are you? I-I don't understand what you're saying. <color=white>Tread carefully; we're crossing no man's land! Hold strong while we cut the barbed wire! <color=white>There, we can follow the Foundation's people. Come on, pull yourself together!
Creius: Attention all Foundation Operators: the Manus fortress at Hill 299 has been destroyed!Creius: Execute retreat as planned!Creius: The Manus fortress has been destroyed, and the soldiers have been led in retreat to the rear.Creius: I understand. Thank you for your support in this critical time, Mr. Irinei.

11TH-23 赦免令 / The Pardon

又一次月升月落之后，屹立不倒的教堂再次接纳白昼的光明。
After yet another night passes, the hidden chapel once again welcomes the light of day.

此时已接近正午，草被绵软的庭院内依旧保持惯有的静谧，只不过此刻多了一份因静候而生的肃穆。
Time passes, reaching near to midday, and the grassy courtyard holds its quiet with a patience born of humility.

玛丽安娜：……
Sentinel: ...

受企盼的人终于出现在林地边缘——她已经用一夜的时间处理好醒目的伤痕。
The awaited figure finally appears at the forest's edge. She's spent the night tending to her wounds.

石像鬼妇人：玛丽，你回来了。
Female Gargoyle: My, Marie, thou hast returned!

她按捺住上前拥抱的念头——因为此时她正用双手端着一只装着咖啡与茶点的银盘。
She holds back the urge to embrace her family—her arms are filled with a silver tray of coffee and pastries.

玛丽安娜：咖啡？
Sentinel: Coffee?

石像鬼妇人：没错，照你喜欢的——不加奶也不加糖。另外还有一些香草马卡龙和蒙布朗。
Female Gargoyle: Yes, just to thy liking—no milk, no sugar. There are also vanilla macarons and Mont Blanc besides.

对于刚从战场上退下的士兵来说，这些食物与器皿的色彩营造了一种不真实的氛围。
The bright colors of the pastries feel all the more surreal for the darkness she has gone through.

玛丽安娜从堂姨手中接过温热的咖啡，怀着不可思议的心情轻啜一口。当然，不及巴黎咖啡馆的出品，但此刻亦是珍馐美味。
Sentinel takes the warm coffee from her aunt's hands and takes a small sip in disbelief. Of course, it's far from the quality of a Parisian café, but at this moment, it is more than enough.

玛丽安娜：姨妈，这些是从哪里弄来的？
Sentinel: Where did you get these desserts?

妇人双手握在一起，展露出一道有些哀婉的苦笑。
The woman clasps her hands together, wearing a faint, bittersweet smile.

石像鬼妇人：看看谁来了，玛丽。
Female Gargoyle: Look, who is here, my sweetie.

她让出身子，玛丽安娜即刻注意到那久未得见的高大身影。
Sentinel takes notice of the tall figure stepping into view—a face she has not seen for a long time.

埃曼努埃尔：玛丽安娜。
Immanuel: Marianne.

玛丽安娜：……父亲。
Sentinel: Father.

玛丽安娜：你为什么过来了？
Sentinel: What brought you here?

埃曼努埃尔：总统已经为你签发了赦免令，你可以回后方了。
Immanuel: A pardon hath been issued by the president. Thou art free.

埃曼努埃尔：另外，拉蒂斯病得不轻，在信仰问题上，他太钻牛角尖，我虽然预料到了这一天……
Immanuel: As for Ladislas, he is gravely ill. His stubbornness was ever bound to lead to trouble.

他以略带不满的方式结束了话题。
He ends the topic with mild discontent.

埃曼努埃尔：总而言之，我是来接你们离开的。
Immanuel: Hmph. To answer thy question: I am here to gather ye. We are to depart.

玛丽安娜：这么说，现在家里是你在管事。
Sentinel: So, you are now the leader of the clan?

埃曼努埃尔：泰内布朗热家在战争中损失惨重，需要有人在战后领导家族的重建。我正在重新与失散的家族成员取得联系。
Immanuel: Verily. After all we have suffered under this war, someone must lead the Ténébrun family's reconstruction. I seek to re-establish contact with those of our kin with whom we have lost fellowship.

埃曼努埃尔：重塑之手尚未威胁到巴黎，我在蒙马特购置了几套房产，在重塑之手和基金会的冲突结束之前可供暂时居住。
Immanuel: The hand of Manus Vindictae has not yet fallen upon Paris. I have purchased a number of dwellings in Montmartre. They are to be our temporary homes until the conflict between the Manus and the Foundation reaches its end.

泰内布朗热先生以不容置喙的姿态转身，面向艾格尼丝。
The Ténébrun patriarch makes an imperturbable gesture as he turns to face Agnès.

埃曼努埃尔：艾格尼丝要送回鲁昂，安置在家族的墓地中。
Immanuel: Agnès shall be sent to our cemetery in Rouen.

玛丽安娜：……墓地？
Sentinel: Cemetery?

她不能理解这个词。
She cannot—or will not—accept the words.

玛丽安娜：艾格尼丝没有死，她只是……出于……拉蒂斯说的某些理由……
Sentinel: But Agnès is not dead; she's simply ... Ladislas said there was a reason behind her—

玛丽安娜抬起眼，对上父亲有些哀其不争的目光。
Marianne raises her eyes and meets her father's mournful gaze.

埃曼努埃尔：你从来都不尊重家族的传统，所以才会被拉蒂斯的疯言疯语所欺骗。
Immanuel: This is what comes of disrespecting tradition, Marianne. Thou wert too easily swayed by Ladislas's maddened words.

玛丽安娜：他撒谎了？
Sentinel: He lied to us?

埃曼努埃尔：不，我相信他不会撒谎，只是在对灵知的探索中太过偏狭。
Immanuel: Nay. I believe not that such was his intent. He was simply too fervent in his pursuit of Gnosis.

埃曼努埃尔：家族中没有任何记载表明，预兆会以这种奇怪的方式降临在我们的族人身上。
Immanuel: There is no record in the family archives that suggests any sort of prophecy should befall our kin in so strange a form.

埃曼努埃尔：艾格尼丝的“雕塑化”只是一个平凡的惨剧，没有任何隐秘或神圣的意味。
Immanuel: Agnès's condition is the result of a tragic accident, nothing more. There is no divine meaning behind it whatsoever.

埃曼努埃尔：她只是因为太过害怕落在头上的炮火，才在未成熟的神秘术上失手，在石化中没有留下任何一丝血肉。
Immanuel: Her fear of the war was too great. She simply faltered in the casting of her arcane skill and petrified her body to the core.

埃曼努埃尔：这就是全部的故事。
Immanuel: That is all.

玛丽安娜：……
Sentinel: ...

埃曼努埃尔：你和拉蒂斯都把她看得太重，可艾格尼丝终究只是一个普通的孩子，并非天上降下的天使。
Immanuel: I know well that Agnès meant a great deal to both Ladislas and thee, but she was only an ordinary child. She was not an angel descended from heaven.

埃曼努埃尔：我也为此难过，但你必须相信，不会再有任何奇迹降临到艾格尼丝身上。她永远都只能是一座雕塑。
Immanuel: Though it doth bring sorrow for me to say, we must all come to accept that no miracle shall ever come to Agnès—she will forever remain a statue.

父亲伸出手，轻轻拍了拍女儿已承担了许多重量的肩膀。
He reaches out to take his daughter's shoulder, already bearing too many burdens.

父女没有再交谈什么，只是在艾格尼丝的“雕塑”前戚然沉吟。
Their conversation falls away into a pensive silence before the "statue" of Agnès.

泰内布朗热先生率先离开了，他还有更重要的事情要处理——教堂外已经停着好几辆搬家用的卡车。
He is the first to leave, attending to more pressing matters—several moving trucks are already parked outside the church.

颤巍巍的锁链声刺破了空气。
Trembling chains pierce the air.

玛丽安娜：……？
Sentinel: ...?

拉蒂斯：玛丽安娜，你竟然回来了……
Ladislas: Marianne, thou hast returned. How ...?

教士步履蹒跚，似乎正在被什么无形的东西推搡着向玛丽安娜靠近。
He staggers forward, as if pushed by some invisible force, drawing closer to Sentinel.

他的手心捧着一串闪着寒光的锁链。
In his palm lies a chain that glints coldly in the sunlight.

玛丽安娜：该死的，我以为父亲只是——你真的生病了吗？
Sentinel: S**t, I thought Father was only ... Have you truly fallen ill?

拉蒂斯：我生了病，那你呢，玛丽安娜？——你竟不知道自己陷入了比罹患疾病更可悲的境地中了吗？
Ladislas: That I have. But what of thee, Marianne? Art thou not in a condition far graver than my own? Or art thou simply too blind to see it?

他吐出疯癫的言辞，完全失去了过往谨慎克制的谦逊。
He babbles on. With every word, his madness grows. There seems to be no trace of his old humility left.

拉蒂斯：我在你身上看见了多么沉重的罪孽，可悲的人！而我也一样……一样……天啊，我在你身上嗅到了地狱的气味……
Ladislas: Thy soul is stained with the wickedness of sin! Thou art as miserable as I ... O Lord, I-I can smell the stench of hell upon thee ...

拉蒂斯：你从地狱归来了，玛丽安娜……可悲的人……
Ladislas: Thou hast passed through the gates of hell and returned, Marianne ... How wretched ...

玛丽安娜：拉蒂斯，你真的疯了。
Sentinel: You are ill, Ladislas. Gravely so.

玛丽安娜：到巴黎之后，去找一个安静的疗养院吧。
Sentinel: Take a moment's rest in the quiet of a sanatorium upon reaching Paris, won't you? It ought to do you good.

拉蒂斯狡黠地眯起眼，像一个正在分享秘密的孩童。
Ladislas squints like a child sharing a secret.

拉蒂斯：我也许会乖乖在疗养院休养，但你不想回去，对吧？
Ladislas: Perhaps I shall. But thou wilt not return with us, wilt thou?

玛丽安娜：……我还没有决定……
Sentinel: I am yet undecided. Perhaps I will ...

拉蒂斯：不……不！你不能回去，你永远不能再回去。
Ladislas: Nay. Nay. Thou must not! Thou must never return!

玛丽安娜：你说什么？
Sentinel: Why?

拉蒂斯：我和别人不一样，能在你身上看见特别的东西……你已经不再是——不再是……
Ladislas: I see that which others cannot, and I see it in thee. Thou art not who thou once wast! Inside thee, there is ...

拉蒂斯：恶魔……萦绕在家族之血中的恶魔，它睁开了眼睛……它的眼睛——
Ladislas: A demon, the demon which doth linger in our veins. It hath opened its eyes, its wretched eyes!

拉蒂斯：啊——
Ladislas: Aaagghh!

拉蒂斯发出痛苦的哀嚎，浑身颤抖不止，手中的锁链也连带着撞出更加刺耳的噪音。
Ladislas howls in pain, his body shaking violently. The chain in his hand clatters and rings.

拉蒂斯：不能回头了！你已经不能回头……你的路在外面，不在里面……
Ladislas: Thou cannot return—cannot turn back! For there is no path left for thee ...

拉蒂斯：但是……但是我想帮助你，我的堂亲。我会帮助所有人，但尤其是你，以偿还我的罪孽。
Ladislas: But ... but I desire naught more than to aid thee, my dear cousin. Yea, I shall help us all, but most especially thee—to atone for my transgressions ...

他止住了颤抖，以极尽恭顺的姿态低下瘦长的身躯，将手中的锁链捧在玛丽安娜眼前。
The shaking stops, and all at once, he bows with a gesture of utter submission, presenting the chain before her.

玛丽安娜：——拉蒂斯？
Sentinel: Ladislas?

拉蒂斯：这是束缚灵魂的枷锁……牢笼。是的，但我恳求你能将它收下……
Ladislas: These shackles are a soul-binding chain—a cage, yea, but I beg thee accept them.

拉蒂斯：我会奉献我的一生为你的灵魂祈祷，堂亲，日日夜夜，愿你的灵魂不至于永堕黑暗。
Ladislas: And I shall devote my life to prayer over thee—both night and day—that thy soul shall not be shaded in eternal darkness.

玛丽安娜：……
Sentinel: ...

拉蒂斯：愿你的血洁净，洒向大地，新的土地将因此繁茂。愿你走在地狱的路上，依旧念着神圣的名。
Ladislas: May thy blood be washed clean one day. May it nourish the soil when thou art laid to rest. May thy journey to hell yet be graced by God's mercy.

又是一份不轻的负累，它将时刻提醒拥有者可施加之恶的极限。
Another not-so-light burden to serve as a constant reminder of the limits of evil.

玛丽安娜：如果我不接受这份镣铐呢？
Sentinel: And if I refuse these shackles?

拉蒂斯：我的祈祷也不会因此停歇，一如过往的一切时日。
Ladislas: It mattereth not. I shall pray for thee still, as I have ever done.

艾格尼丝如同在静默地倾听着这一切。
A sudden impulse moves her to look at the statue of Agnès.

拉蒂斯：……
Ladislas: ...

最终，她取走了锁链。
At last, she takes the chain.

冰冷的金属垂在手中，如有千钧之重。
The metal hangs in her hand; its weight feels far greater than its size would merit.

玛丽安娜：告诉我父亲，我不回去了。
Sentinel: Tell my father that I will not return.

玛丽安娜：——除非战争有真正结束的那一天。
Sentinel: Until the true conflict is brought to an end.

11TH-24 山 / The Hill

一座完成的山。无法企及死亡的千万分之一。
A completed mountain. Though only a mere fraction of what death truly claims.

卡戎：……
Charon: ...

它扔下了过往的一切：一件大衣，一顶头盔，一双短靴……一只蝴蝶封面的笔记本。
It left everything behind: a coat, a helmet, a pair of boots ... a butterfly-covered notebook.

——曾属于名叫保罗的年轻人的一切。
—Everything that once belonged to a young man named Paul.

卡戎：你的战争结束了，保罗。
Charon: Your war is over, Paul.

遗物被妥善安葬在最后一处坟墓中，紧挨着一位在山顶死去的少校。
His belongings are fittingly buried at the last grave, beside the major who died atop the hill.

远处有渐近的马蹄声。
A clatter of hooves approaches from the road.

卡戎：……安德烈森？
Charon: Andreas?

一声轻柔到几乎像是不想吵醒任何人的呼唤。
The name is whispered softly, as if not to disturb those resting here.

它在软烂的泥土路上驻足，片刻之后，蹄声踏破晨雾，徐徐靠近。
The sound stops where gravel meets the mush of mud and snowmelt.

安德烈森：咴——
Andreas: Neigh—

一匹黑马出现在收尸人面前。
A black horse breaks the veil of mist and approaches.

它轻吐鼻息，渴望一次轻抚。
The horse exhales a comforting snort—leaning in—yearning for his hand.

卡戎：好孩子——
Charon: Good boy.

卡戎：你消失了很长一段时间——你又去了一些过于危险的地方寻找你丢失的好友？
Charon: You have been gone for a long time. Off to dangerous places again to search for your lost friends?

安德烈森：咴……
Andreas: ...

卡戎：或许在你身上附着着某种特殊的命运，使你能在这场屠杀中躲过众多致命的威胁。
Charon: It seems luck has been on your side. You have dodged danger time and again amidst this slaughter.

卡戎：但我仍然担心流弹与毒气会将你置于死地。
Charon: But I cannot help but worry that, one day, a stray bullet will pierce you, or a poison gas will choke you.

安德烈森：……咴咴——咴。
Andreas: Neigh!

马儿低下了头。
The horse lowers its head.

卡戎：我没有在责备你，安德烈森，相反，你能重新回到我身边，令我心怀感激。
Charon: Harshness is not my intention, Andreas. But I am grateful that you have returned to my side hale and whole.

亡者看向东方。日光升起之地，噩兆的乌云弥漫。
They look eastward. Toward the rising sun, where ominous clouds gather.

卡戎：该走了……下一个目的地无比遥远，我正需要你的帮助。
Charon: It's time. The next destination is a distant one. Your help will be appreciated.

安德烈森：——咴。
Andreas: ...

安德烈森向一侧偏头，示意主人注意早就靠到近前的青年人。
Andreas tilts its head to one side, signaling its master's attention to the youth who has arrived behind them.

“警官”：卡戎先生，这匹马是你的吗？
"Officer": Mr. Charon, is this your horse?

直到这时，迟钝的亡者才注意到有人向自己打招呼。
The grim figure turns his face toward the source of the question.

卡戎：……是的，年轻人。
Charon: In a sense, young man.

“警官”：那就没关系了。这匹马突然出现在蒙佩附近，我还以为和重塑之手有关系，就一直追了过来。
"Officer": Oh, then it's nothing. He showed up near Montpaix all by himself, so I followed him here to see if he might be connected to Manus Vindictae.

卡戎：基金会仍然留在蒙佩吗？
Charon: The Foundation is still in Montpaix?

“警官”：我们很快就会离开，军队需要转移到更安全的地方去。
"Officer": We'll head off soon along with the soldiers to a safer position.

“警官”：对了，你知道“乌鸫”去了哪里吗？
"Officer": By the way, do you know where Blackbird is?

卡戎：“乌鸫”？
Charon: Blackbird?

“警官”：噢，梅蕾尔，就是那个和你一起去前线的女孩。她在重塑之手发动袭击之后就失联了。
"Officer": Oh, I mean Merel—the girl who went to the front with you. I haven't been able to get in touch with her since the Manus attacked.

“警官”：我正在找她……希望她不要出什么事才好。
"Officer": Where could she be? I just hope she hasn't gotten herself into any serious trouble.

卡戎：她还活着。
Charon: She is alive and well.

意外的收获。青年的眼中显露出明显的光彩。
A surprise. The young man's eyes alight with joy.

“警官”：她还活着？！——你见过她？
"Officer": She is? Where did you see her?

卡戎：……我不能告诉你。
Charon: That, I cannot tell.

光彩瞬间熄灭，帕拉维扬怎么也没想到会在这个问题上遭到拒绝。
His gleam dims as Paravyan adjusts to the unexpected refusal.

“警官”：为什么？
"Officer": Why?

卡戎：她不希望你们找到她。
Charon: She does not wish to be found.

“警官”：什……什么？难道她不想回来吗？
"Officer": Wh-What? She doesn't wanna come back with us?

卡戎：是的。她很害怕之后的战争。
Charon: Correct. She is afraid of the war that lies ahead.

卡戎：真实的杀戮，直白的死亡……对这位少女来说，她或许没有做好接受这一切的准备。
Charon: Bloodshed, carnage ... She was unprepared to witness such harrowing scenes.

卡戎：她向我索要了一个承诺，不将她的行踪透露给基金会的诸位。
Charon: She requested I not reveal her whereabouts to the Foundation—in fact, she demanded a promise.

“警官”：……我……我不懂，你就这么放她走了？
"Officer": I don't understand. How could you just let her go like that?

“警官”：她一个人待着不会更危险吗？而且……她的档案会被记录为“逃亡”……天呐。
"Officer": Isn't she more likely to run into danger if she's on her own? And leaving like this, she'll be marked as a deserter. Oh, no.

卡戎：我不明白你说的这些。
Charon: I know little of your rules.

卡戎：但我的承诺如此，也理解她的恐慌。每个人都有正当的理由去逃避畏惧的事物。
Charon: But a promise was made, and her reasoning is understandable. It is her right to turn away from her fear, just as it is anyone else's.

青年从来没有想过要怎么应付眼前的场景，只觉得有一种力量无处挥舞的别扭。
The young man never thought about how to cope with such a situation.

他急躁地抓挠着头发，最终做出了决定。
He scratches his head, at last arriving at a simple conclusion.

“警官”：好吧……至少她还活着。
"Officer": Fine. At least she's still alive.

“警官”：我会另想办法找到她的，不能让她一个人在外面游荡。
"Officer": But I can't leave her alone out there. I'll find a way to track her down.

清澈的声音做出承诺，他仿佛刚刚接受了一项艰巨的任务。
The voice is clear and certain. He is willing and able, no matter how daunting the task ahead.

“警官”：感谢你提供的信息。再见，卡戎先生。
"Officer": Thank you for the information, Mr. Charon. Goodbye.

青年踏上返回蒙佩的道路。
He sets off on the road back to Montpaix.

一刻钟后，他的背影隐没在东部的树林里。
They watch him together, horse and rider, as he disappears into the woods.

“草丛”：“沙沙——”
Long Grass: "Hiss—"

安德烈森：咴？
Andreas: ...?

梅蕾尔：……他走了？
Merel: Has he gone?

卡戎：是的。
Charon: Yes.

安德烈森：咴咴——咴。
Andreas: Neigh ...

少女从草丛中蹿出来。
The girl leaps out from the grass.

梅蕾尔：你怎么告诉他我还活着？
Merel: Why did you tell him that I'm still alive?

卡戎：你没有让我不说这个。
Charon: You did not request that to be kept a secret.

梅蕾尔：……
Merel: ...

梅蕾尔：好吧。
Merel: Fine.

亡者点头致意，缓缓离去。
He nods his assent and begins to shuffle away.

安德烈森打着响鼻，在卡戎与梅蕾尔之间绕着圈徘徊。
Andreas snorts as it circles between them.

安德烈森：咴。
Andreas: ...

梅蕾尔轻拍马儿的面颊。
Merel pats the horse's cheek.

梅蕾尔：那个……卡戎？
Merel: Umm, Charon?

卡戎：嗯？
Charon: Huh?

梅蕾尔：其实……我并没有打算在这里当一个守墓人。
Merel: Actually, I wasn't serious, you know, when I said I wanted to become a gravekeeper here.

卡戎：死者不需要陪伴，作为纪念的墓碑也有朽烂的一日，最终，时间会将我们带入遗忘之海。
Charon: The dead need no company, and every tombstone will one day fall to decay. In the end, time will pull us all into the sea of oblivion.

卡戎：没有任何事物值得以不朽为名。
Charon: Nothing in this world is immortal.

年轻女孩挠了挠遮脸的布料，或者是成为“逃兵”的紧张，让她的皮肤感到有些发痒。
The young girl scratches at the fabric covering her face. The tension of being a "deserter" seems to make her skin itch.

梅蕾尔：好吧，关于守墓人的玩笑很差劲……我想说的是，我不知道该去哪里……离开基金会之后，我不认识其他能帮我的人。
Merel: Right. Well, anyway, the gravekeeper joke was a bad one, I admit it. But what I'm trying to say is, I'm not sure where to go next. I mean, who else can I depend on besides the Foundation?

梅蕾尔：我更不想被重塑之手的人抓到，你不知道他们在南极都做了些什么……
Merel: I definitely don't want to get caught by Manus Vindictae, that's for sure. Trust me, you don't want to know what they were doing in Antarctica.

梅蕾尔：噢……不是这个时代的南极，是之前的南极。总之我一个人完全没办法对付他们。
Merel: Oh, not the Antarctica in this era—the one from before. Anyway, my point is, I can't deal with them on my own.

安德烈森：咴……
Andreas: ...

梅蕾尔：可我还是能做一些事的，一些讨人厌的魔精我能很轻松地对付。
Merel: But I can still do something, like dealing with troublemaking critters.

梅蕾尔：所以……如果你……需要，嗯，帮手的话，我们……可以一起走？至少你不会撒谎。
Merel: So, um, if you need that kind of help, maybe we can travel together? I trust you.

卡戎：我并不会去一个安全的地方。
Charon: My path will have little safety.

梅蕾尔：等遇到危险的时候，我自己就会逃跑的。这点你就放心吧。
Merel: That's alright. I'll just run off when danger comes.

卡戎：……既然如此，请跟上我。
Charon: In that case, follow me.

卡戎：不想经过基金会监视地区的话，我们要绕一个更远的路。
Charon: We will take a detour to avoid entering territories under the Foundation's surveillance.

它从衣兜内拿出一根只有半截的巧克力，即使一直贴身存放，也并未融化。
He retrieves the familiar chocolates from his coat; they're unmelted and cool to the touch, despite having been kept so close to his body.

卡戎：如果你饿了，这些东西都可以还给你。如果你累了，安德烈森可以驮着你前进。
Charon: If you're hungry, these can be returned to you. Andreas will carry you should you grow tired.

从战争中逃脱的士兵雀跃地点头。
The soldier who has at last escaped war nods with joy.

梅蕾尔：……好、好的！
Merel: Got it!

Z：……有关《暴雨改革》法案的修订已经提上日程，委员会很快就会开启下一轮协商，你也要出席会议。
Z: The revision to the Storm Reformation Act has been added to the agenda, and the Committee will soon begin the next round of discussion. You'll need to attend the meetings as well.

Z：近期的事件令“鹰派”掌握了较大话语权，他们都很支持扩大司辰小队的权责与预算。
Z: Recent events have given the Hawks a stronger voice, and they are in favor of expanding the authority and budget of Team Timekeeper.

Z：做好准备，维尔汀。
Z: Stay ready, Vertin.

维尔汀：……我明白了。
Vertin: Understood.

基金会职员与委员们在走廊中匆忙地穿行而过。
Foundation staff and Committee members hurry through the hallway.

刚退出Z女士的办公室，就再度听见了熟悉的声音。
Just as they exit Ms. Z's office, they're met with a familiar voice.

刻雷乌斯：……司辰？
Creius: Timekeeper?

维尔汀：你在等我？
Vertin: Were you waiting for me?

刻雷乌斯：只是凑巧而已。不过我很高兴你能记得我。
Creius: No, just a happy coincidence. I'm glad to know that you remember me.

维尔汀：当然。你的行动拯救了很多士兵的生命。
Vertin: Of course. Your decisiveness saved the lives of many soldiers on the battlefield.

维尔汀：蒙佩的危机解除之后，“鸽派”也同意了扩大“前线应急预案”的决议。
Vertin: I also heard that the Doves agreed to further implement your "frontline contingency plan" after the Montpaix crisis was resolved.

刻雷乌斯：呵呵……没想到你还关心政治。
Creius: Heh. I'm surprised to see you're interested in politics.

维尔汀：……我不关心，只是有所了解。
Vertin: I'm not interested, just informed.

刻雷乌斯毫不在意地抛开了政治话题。
Creius brushes aside the topic without comment.

刻雷乌斯：上次的会面太过仓促，我一直想找个机会继续……不过，这里也并不是个适合谈话的地方。
Creius: I've been wanting to speak with you since our last meeting was cut short, but this certainly isn't the place for a proper conversation either.

刻雷乌斯：但我或许可以给你提供一些有价值的简单情报。有关于基金会，有关于……
Creius: Contact me if you're interested. I have some very valuable information for you, I'm sure. Both about the Foundation and about ...

刻雷乌斯：“兀尔德”。
Creius: Urd.

维尔汀：……！
Vertin: ...!

看见预料之中的反应，男人露出笑容，将一枚信封递了过来。
Seeing the expected reaction, he smiles and hands over an envelope.

刻雷乌斯：期待你的联络。我想，我们一定能合作愉快。
Creius: I look forward to hearing from you. I'm sure we will make excellent collaborators.

十四行诗：……司辰，打扰一下。
Sonetto: Excuse me, Timekeeper.

第一助手匆匆赶来，以疑问和警惕参半的目光看向红发男子。
Sonetto rushes over, looking at the red-haired man with a mix of suspicion and confusion.

十四行诗：请问您有什么要紧事吗，刻雷乌斯先生？如果您有需要，我可以帮你们安排会议时间……
Sonetto: Oh, Mr. Creius, do you have an urgent matter you'd like to discuss with the Timekeeper? I can arrange a meeting for you if necessary.

刻雷乌斯：不必，我们只是偶然遇见问候一下而已。
Creius: No need for that. I was just saying hello.

刻雷乌斯：下次再见，司辰，十四行诗小姐。
Creius: Until next time—Timekeeper, Ms. Sonetto.

男人微微点头，随后匆匆走远了。
He gives a nod, slight but confident, then takes his leave.

维尔汀：……
Vertin: ...

十四行诗：司辰？你还好吗……
Sonetto: Timekeeper, is there something wrong?

维尔汀：……没什么。你看起来很匆忙，十四行诗。
Vertin: It's nothing. You seem a little anxious, Sonetto. What's the matter?

第一助手神色不安地拿出通讯器。
Sonetto takes out her communicator.

十四行诗：司辰，我是来给你看这个的。这是一则紧急留言。
Sonetto: Timekeeper, you need to look at this. It's an important message.

维尔汀：联络人……红弩箭？
Vertin: Sent from ... Lilya?

*紧急情况*

受索姆将军直接调遣，我正在东线执行任务。
I've been on a mission on the eastern front, under the direct orders of Admiral Somme.

头儿，猜猜看我发现了……&%#……什么？一个管辖……*#@……外的……￥%&#……芝诺驻扎地。
Guess what I found, Captain? An *static noise* Zeno outpost without *static noise*.

根据我的判断，这是……*&%……叛军。
From the looks of it, I think it's the *static noise* rebels.

详情……$#@……尽快回电。
I can tell *static noise* in more detail. Call me back as soon as you can.

留言在一阵杂音中结束。
The message ends in a burst of static.

十四行诗：我收到留言后就尝试过联络红弩箭小姐，但……呼叫无法接通。
Sonetto: I tried to contact Ms. Lilya after receiving the message, but I couldn't get through.

十四行诗：她在留言中提到了芝诺的叛军，我担心……
Sonetto: She mentioned Zeno rebels. This is worrying.

维尔汀：……是伊戈尔？红弩箭有麻烦了。
Vertin: Could it be ... Igor? Lilya might be in trouble.

维尔汀：十四行诗，和我回一趟Z女士的办公室。
Vertin: Sonetto, I think we'd better pay another visit to Madam Z.
