长夜鸣笛 - The Midnight Whistle

目录

- TMW-01 乘车须知 / Travel Notice
- TMW-02 羊肠线 / Catgut
- TMW-03 用餐愉快 / Bon Appétit
- TMW-04 雪夜快车 / The Midnight Piercer
- TMW-05 四个半朋友 / Four and a Half Friends
- TMW-06 野树莓的证词 / The Suspect's Testimony
- TMW-07 多瑙黎明 / The Danube Dawn
- TMW-08 铁道猫 / The Railway Cat
- TMW-09 生人勿近 / Do Not Enter
- TMW-10 墓园里 / Among the Dead
- TMW-11 十三号车厢 / Carriage No. 13
- TMW-12 凉水泉 / Kreynero
- TMW-13 不归者 / The Non-Returnees
- TMW-14 征服者爬虫 / The Conqueror Worm
- TMW-15 云雀蛋糕 / Lark Cake
- TMW-16 雪与惊魂夜 / Winter Fright Night
- TMW-17 睦邻 / Friends in Need
- TMW-18 吾血之血 / Blood of My Blood
- TMW-19 “我们” / Here, Together
- TMW-20 长夜漫漫 / Comes the Dawning Light
- TMW-21 阳光下的土地 / A Land Under the Sun

TMW-01 乘车须知 / Travel Notice

那不是普通的列车。
This is no ordinary train.

从伊斯坦布尔到维也纳，它沿途穿越的每一寸土地，都不乏弥漫的硝烟与战火。
From Istanbul to Vienna, each land it passes through still carries the echoes of gunshots and explosions.

在战前，它曾是奢华的象征。在战时，它一票难求，人们将其视为逃离死亡的方舟……
Before the war, it was a symbol of luxury. Now it is an ark, a way to outrun death, and everyone is scrambling for a ticket.

无人知晓的是，列车会挑选死亡之夜停下。
They have no idea that when night falls and the train stops, death comes aboard too.

在夜里醒来的乘客们，先是听见哭声，然后听见哀嚎。而当他们朝声音的来源寻觅而去时……
On one such night, a group of passengers awoke to the sound of crying. They followed it. Then the crying turned to bawling, and the bawling to wailing, until they reached it—

他们看见了那节本不该存在的车厢，无数血红的眼睛在尽头的黑暗中交替明灭。
A door that wasn't there before. And there, in a carriage that never was, in that place that shouldn't even have existed, blood-red eyes blinked in the darkness.

乘客们还未来得及发出尖叫，便被扯入黑暗，成为那永无止境的哭声和哀嚎的一部分。
Before they could utter a scream, they were pulled into the darkness, doomed to join the wailing of the dead and dying in their accursed chorus.

很快，夜晚会淹没最后的呼救。
As the night fell and the last slivers of light gave in to the darkness, their cries faded ...

鲜血遍地流淌，沉睡于黑夜中的怪物们悄然苏醒，静静吞咽那甘甜的热血。
And the blood of those sorry passengers trickled, sweet and warm, into the throats of the red-eyed monsters.

直到最后一滴鲜血也被吸尽，列车长终于现身。她在尸体间踱步，如仆从清点主人饱餐后的狼藉。
Only when that last drop had been swallowed up did the conductress appear. Walking amidst the shredded flesh, counting off each passenger the way a butler might inspect a mess left behind from his master's feast.

“……二百三十一、二百三十二。仪式已完成，本次旅程圆满结束。”
"... 231, 232. The ceremony is complete, and this journey has come to an end."

“欢迎再次乘坐我们的列车……”
"We hope you had a pleasant trip, and we look forward to seeing you again aboard ..."

“多瑙黎明号！”
"The 'Danube Dawn'!"

戴毡帽的男孩：“多瑙黎明号”……
Hatted Boy: The "Danube Dawn" ...

又喃喃念了一遍，男孩才恋恋不舍地合上笔记本，将它还给身旁的女性。
The boy mutters the words one last time, then closes his notebook and hands it back to the woman beside him.

戴毡帽的男孩：好久都没读到有关血食怪的新传说了，自从战争开始……谢谢您，好心的女士！
Hatted Boy: Ha! I haven't been able to read a vampire story since the war started. Thank you, kindly ma'am!

？？？：这只是我收集的素材之一。怎么样，还算有趣吗？
???: It's just one of many stories in my collection. I suppose it's interesting enough, then?

戴毡帽的男孩：当然！而且我还知道，一会儿要进站的列车就叫“多瑙黎明号”！
Hatted Boy: You suppose?! It's amazing! And the next train coming into the station is called the "Danube Dawn" too, you know!

戴毡帽的男孩：也就是说，它是血食怪盘踞的秘密基地，对不对？
Hatted Boy: Hah. So it's the same train, isn't it? The vampires' secret base!

？？？：看来你还没弄清传说和真实之间的分界线。
???: Ha, the folly of youth. Not yet able to discern fiction from reality.

戴毡帽的男孩：嗯……我认为很多时候，这条分界线也未必存在，很多传说都诞生于真实……您觉得呢，女士？
Hatted Boy: Well, it's not like these stories just spring up out of nowhere. I've heard all kinds of them that really happened. At least, I think so. What do you think, ma'am?

男孩朝女人眨了眨红色的眼眸，随后将帽檐压得更低了一些。
He blinks his shadowed eyes at the woman, then lowers the brim of his hat.

？？？：我的想法不重要，我只负责记录。倒是你……看来似乎有些特别的故事。
???: What I think is of little matter. I simply write what I see, and I see an intriguing story in you.

？？？：能告诉我你的名字吗？
???: May I have your name?

野树莓：我叫野树莓！很高兴认识你，女士。
Rubuska: Rubuska! My name's Rubuska. Pleasure to meet you, ma'am!

？？？：野树莓……是个有趣的名字，我记住了。我偶尔会记录一些故事，或许你能为我提供一些素材。
???: Rubuska ... An interesting name. I'll be sure to make a record of it. As I said, I'm a collector of stories, and you may just have something worth adding to my collection.

女士翻开自己手中的笔记本，闪亮的钢笔在新一页写下一小行字。
She opens her notebook, her shining pen tracing a line across the page.

野树莓：我的荣幸！不过您即将登上“多瑙黎明号”，而我只是在这里歇脚而已，恐怕我们之后不太可能会有交集了。
Rubuska: I'd love to, ma'am! But you're about to board the train, aren't you? I'm only here for a visit, so it's pretty much impossible I'll ever see you again.

？？？：这可不一定。
???: I wouldn't be so sure.

女士漫不经心地转动着指间的钢笔，从书页里抬起头。
She spins the pen idly between her fingers and looks up.

？？？：一个传奇的故事，往往是由“不可能”开始的。
???: Many a great tale started with the "impossible."

乘客Ⅰ：“血食怪”？哈哈，老掉牙的故事啦。
Passenger I: Vampires on a train, eh? Hahahaha, that old tale.

旁边传来一声感慨，显然不只一人成为了“多瑙黎明号”故事的听众。
The comment drifts lazily out from another passenger. It seems the tale has a few more listeners than expected.

野树莓：老掉牙？老爷爷，您以前听过这个故事？
Rubuska: Old tale? You've heard the story before, sir?

乘客Ⅰ：类似的故事没有几百也有上千啦。血食怪吃人、狼人吃人、野兽吃人……
Passenger I: No, no, not precisely, but many like it. Vampires, werewolves, wild beasts, and monsters.

乘客Ⅰ：说到底，本质都是人吃人罢了，还非要安上一个名头。这些写故事的人呀，就喜欢这么弯弯绕绕。
Passenger I: It's always the same story about the powerful consuming the common folk. Heh, storytellers have always been good at making their points one way or another.

野树莓：唔，我觉得还是不太一样……您觉得呢，女士……？
Rubuska: Uhh, that doesn't seem like the same thing to me. What do you think, ma'am?

野树莓转过头去，那位带来故事的女士却已经消失了。
Rubuska turns to look, but the woman who told the story has vanished.

乘客Ⅰ：哈哈，看来你还是相信血食怪的年纪。
Passenger I: Hahahahaha! You're young. You'll grow out of these tall tales soon enough.

野树莓：难道您不相信血食怪是真实存在的吗？
Rubuska: You really don't think vampires are real?

乘客Ⅰ：一趟列车在驶向终点之前，车上的人都死光了——在这样的故事里，有没有血食怪很重要吗？
Passenger I: Ah, I'm much too old to believe in that kind of rubbish. I don't see why it's necessary to even put vampires in that one anyway.

老人长长地吐出一口烟圈。他弯下身，揉着断腿和假肢之间那仿佛还在疼痛的残缺接口。
The old man exhales a long ring of smoke. He bends down, rubbing the raw seam where his prosthetic meets his severed leg.

野树莓：很重要。
Rubuska: Of course it's necessary.

男孩认真地点了点头，面向火车进站的方向。
The boy nods gravely, turning toward the direction of the oncoming train.

野树莓：在一个大家都会迎来死亡的故事里，血食怪可能是带来死亡的角色，但也可能会带来新生。
Rubuska: Think about it—the story's about death, right? And vampires kill, sure, but they also give eternal life.

野树莓：或许会有死人因为被血食怪咬了而再度苏醒。在那时如果没有血食怪的话，死亡就成了板上钉钉的事。
Rubuska: So, say one of the passengers is killed. The vampire can just bite them on the neck, and just like that, they're alive again! Take out the vampires, and now death is a one-way trip—the end of the line!

野树莓：总之，我不喜欢没有意外的、一眼望到底的故事——那可太没意思了！
Rubuska: It's way more exciting to have some twists and turns. I mean, where's the fun in a story you can predict from the very beginning?

乘客Ⅰ：噢……那你恐怕要失望了，孩子。现在到处是这样的故事。
Passenger I: Ah. You're in for a disappointment looking at things like that. The world is filled with predictable endings, usually predictably tragic.

老人指间夹着半截燃尽的烟头，轻轻点向车站一隅。
The old man, a half-burned cigarette between his fingers, gestures toward a corner of the station,

几道模糊的身影缩在角落，衣衫陈旧，脸颊也被冻得通红。
where a mass of figures huddle together, clothes worn, cheeks red with frost.

他们静静地盯着前方的铁轨，目光沉默而执拗，仿佛要从冰冷的铁轨中刨出一条活路。
Silent and stubborn, they've fixed their gaze on the frozen tracks ahead of them.

乘客Ⅰ：就像这些可怜虫，已经在这里守了好些天了。
Passenger I: Just look at those poor folk over there. They've been waiting here for days.

乘客Ⅰ：你觉得他们有钱买这样昂贵的车票吗？不过是饿着肚子，又吃不住炮火，来这里赌运气罢了。
Passenger I: How do you think their story will end? Do you think they have tickets in their pockets? Hmph, of course not. But they're hungry and afraid to face the gunfire, so they come here to try their luck.

乘客Ⅰ：可惜，这世上哪有这么多奇迹。
Passenger I: *sigh* But miracles are few and far between in this world.

男孩摸了摸自己空空如也的肚子，咀嚼着老人话语背后的深意，慢慢眨了眨眼睛。
The boy pats his empty stomach, chewing on the meaning behind the old man's words.

野树莓：赌运气？听起来很有趣……什么运气？
Rubuska: Try their luck? What sort of luck are you talking about exactly?

乘客Ⅰ：你不也一样吗？小家伙。
Passenger I: I'm sure you're well aware already.

老人意味深长地丢下一句，那双见惯风霜的眼睛静静地望着车站的深处，像是在等待一场即将揭幕的戏剧。
His weathered eyes gaze out over the station, as if awaiting a drama soon to unfold.

野树莓：老爷爷，您快把我说糊涂啦，我们不是在这里听故事的吗？
Rubuska: Hah, ah, you're confusing me, sir. Weren't we just talking about stories?

男孩弯下腰，拍拍自己膝盖上的灰尘，借着动作，他的目光在车站里缓慢移动的人群中逡巡着。
The boy bends to brush the dust from his knees. As he does, the crowd begins to move.

恰逢站台整点的钟声响起，站务员的声音从风雪中飘来。
At that moment, the station bell tolls, and a voice rings out over the din.

站务员：列车还有二十分钟即将进站。请大家排好队，注意自己的车票和行李……
Station Staff: The next train will arrive in twenty minutes. Please line up, taking care to bring all your belongings, and prepare your tickets for inspection.

平民Ⅰ：车就要来了……“多瑙黎明号”……
Civilian I: It's coming—The "Danube Dawn."

平民Ⅱ：一定要抓住机会……
Civilian II: This is my chance.

人们纷纷起身，向乘车处涌去。
The crowd rises and surges toward the boarding gate.

野树莓：我想我现在该走了，我的意思是……我的车就要来了，愿神保佑你，老爷爷！哪个神都保佑你！
Rubuska: Well, I better get going now. I mean, my train is here. God bless you, sir! Whichever god that is!

他朝老人挥挥手，随后也没入人群，像一滴水没入大海。
He waves to the old man before slipping into the crowd like a drop falling into the sea.

无人在意这小小的身影，人们现在只关心车票、远方的家人、即将进站的列车……
No one notices his movement; all they care about are tickets, loved ones far away, and the train about to arrive,

……以及手头棘手的工作。
along with a troublesome mission.

塞梅尔维斯：“多瑙黎明号”，一九一二年十一月三十日，靠站于……
Semmelweis: November 30th, 1912, the "Danube Dawn" is arriving at ...

塞梅尔维斯：血食怪……感染……
Semmelweis: Vampires ... Infection ...

塞梅尔维斯：重塑之手……
Semmelweis: Manus Vindictae ...

调查员的目光停在那个熟悉的单词上。
The investigator lingers on the name.

塞梅尔维斯：……第五次“暴雨”后的首次外勤任务，竟然就要跟重塑之手打交道。
Semmelweis: Didn't expect I'd be dealing with Manus Vindictae for my first field mission after the 5th "Storm."

塞梅尔维斯：根据已有情报推断，重塑之手安插的血食怪很有可能会登上这趟列车……
Semmelweis: According to current intelligence, the vampire working with the Manus is set to board this train.

塞梅尔维斯：我还期待着和新队友们一同合作，尽早达成目标收工。
Semmelweis: I was hoping I'd be able to finish this job with my new teammates. Get this done quickly.

塞梅尔维斯：现在看来，恐怕不会那么轻松了。
Semmelweis: It looks like this won't be so easy.

调查员叹了口气，拿出外衣口袋内的通讯器。
She sighs and draws a communicator from her coat pocket.

塞梅尔维斯：下多瑙河七十七行动小队，傍晚六点二十分，车站会合……
Semmelweis: Istros Operation Squad 77; rendezvous: train station; time: 18:20 hours ...

塞梅尔维斯：还是没有回音。我可没听说过“暴雨”会影响人对时间观念的认知。
Semmelweis: Still no answer. I never realized the "Storm" could affect people's punctuality, too.

塞梅尔维斯：……
Semmelweis: ...

塞梅尔维斯：好吧，最多等到列车发车……嗯？
Semmelweis: Fine, if the train arrives and they're still not here, then—Hm?

进入车站的人越来越多。他们涌入站台，紧挨着彼此，人数远远超过了一趟列车能够承载的数量。
More and more people stream into the station. The platform heaves with bodies, far beyond the capacity of a single train.

乘客Ⅲ：见鬼，别挤了！你们买得起车票吗？！
Passenger III: Don't push, damn it! Do you even have a ticket?

乘客Ⅳ：车还没进站呢，该死的……
Passenger IV: For crying out loud, the train isn't even here yet!

抱怨声不断响起，焦虑和不安开始蔓延。一时间，车站本就脆弱的秩序荡然无存。
Complaints rise, anxiety spreads. The fragile order of the station collapses.

焦灼的拉锯之中，一声惊叫终于打破了这岌岌可危的平衡。
A scream pierces out above the din.

傲慢的乘客：不，我的车票……！
Arrogant Passenger: No, my ticket!

站务员：先生，请把车票还给那位女士！
Station Staff: Sir, please give that ticket back to that lady.

疯狂的乘客：这就是我的车票！先让我上去！
Maniacal Civilian: What are you talking about? This is my ticket!

傲慢的乘客：你的车票？这么多双眼睛都看着呢，你刚才是怎么从我手里抢走票的！
Arrogant Passenger: Your ticket? You just snatched it from my hand! Everyone just saw it!

指责和劝导都没能对男人造成丝毫动摇。
The man remains unaffected by her scolding.

站务员：我们都有机会离开，先生！这趟列车不会是最后一班，请冷静下来，好吗？
Station Staff: Sir, there will be other trains. Everyone will have the chance to leave. I need you to calm down, understand?

站务员：车票都做了特殊处理，您没法用这张票上车——
Station Staff: Our tickets have been specially processed to prevent misuse, so you won't be able to use that ticket.

疯狂的乘客：下一班，谁能保证有下一班？！听着，我有第一手消息，今晚过后谁都别想走了！
Maniacal Civilian: Other trains? Hey, everyone! Listen to me! I have firsthand information that this is the last train out of here! It's now or never! No one's leaving here after tonight!

站务员：先生……请冷静！
Station Staff: Sir ... SIR!

嘶吼声与孩童的哭喊声交织在白茫茫的蒸汽中，迅速吞没了无用的劝解。
Shouts and children's cries intertwine with whistles and pops of steam, drowning out all persuasion.

疯狂的乘客：你们不知道外面已经烧成什么样子了……谁能保证我们明天还活着……
Maniacal Civilian: You don't know what it's like out there. We could all be dead by tomorrow!

傲慢的乘客：呵，冠冕堂皇的借口罢了！请把票还给我，再来发表你的英雄宣言——
Arrogant Passenger: Oh, enough of your blithering excuses! Give me my ticket back now! You can save your heroic speech for—

傲慢的乘客：啊！！
Arrogant Passenger: AHH!

话音未落，男人猛地将她拽了过去。
Before she finishes, he yanks her toward him.

拥有车票的乘客们发出惊叫，束手无策的平民们沉默着，麻木的眼神都落在他的身上。
Passengers with tickets scream. The ticketless stand silent, numb eyes locked on him.

站务员：先生！请不要冲动……
Station Staff: Sir! Please, drop the weapon.

疯狂的乘客：别拦着我。不然我会一枪崩了她，再崩了你们。
Maniacal Civilian: Let me in. I'll shoot her. I'll shoot you. I'll shoot everyone!

他用手钳住女士的脖颈，缓缓后退，将她从明黄的灯下一点点拽入他身后的暗影中。
He clamps her throat and backs away, dragging her from the yellow lamplight into the shadow behind.

疯狂的乘客：你以为我会乖乖听话，遵守你们的狗屁规则，坐在家里等着炮弹炸穿我的脑子？
Maniacal Civilian: You really think I'm just going to be a good little sheep and go back home to wait for a bomb to fall on my head?

他哑然失笑，眼底涌起一抹血色。
A hollow laugh escapes him, blood rising in his eyes.

疯狂的乘客：不不不……我活不了，你们也别想活——
Maniacal Civilian: No, no, no. If I don't get to make it out of here, then no one else will.

一声朝天的枪响划破沉沉的暮色，人群瞬间安静下来。
A gunshot splits the air. Silence falls over the crowd.

车站守军：喂——混球，把你的手从那位女士身上拿开！
Platform Guard: Hold it, you bastard! Get your hands off that lady!

几名士兵从不远处赶来，枪口毫不迟疑地对准了肇事的乘客。
Guards rush forward, training their rifles on the troublemaker.

车站守军：别逼我们采取“必要的强制措施”。
Platform Guard: Don't make us end this the hard way.

疯狂的乘客：呵呵……
Maniacal Civilian: Heh ...

疯狂的乘客：男人讥讽地看着眼前黑洞洞的枪口，像是在欣赏一个拙劣的笑话。
Maniacal Civilian: He sneers at the dark muzzles.

疯狂的乘客：就是这样，自相残杀、互相掠夺，就像你们在战场上做的那样。
Maniacal Civilian: Aren't you soldiers busy enough killing each other? You have to come and start roughing us up too?

瞳孔收缩，扣住扳机的手指缓缓收紧。
His pupils shrink. His finger tightens on the trigger.

疯狂的乘客：那么，要不要试试看——我们谁的子弹比较快？
Maniacal Civilian: Alright, then try me. Let's see who can pull the trigger first?

混乱中，惊魂未定的“人质”被驻军拽了回来。
In the chaos, the shaken "hostage" is pulled back by the platform guards.

车站守军：您没事吧，女士？
Platform Guard: Are you alright, ma'am?

傲慢的乘客：我好得很。但我的票……票还在他手上！
Arrogant Passenger: I'm fine, but my ticket ... He still has my ticket!

她指向前方的肇事者。此刻他像一头失控的野兽冲撞出去。
She points toward the culprit ahead, who now charges like a mad bull.

疯狂的乘客：别拦着我，滚开！
Maniacal Civilian: Out of my way!

他终于摆脱了身后的驻军，向着前方雾气弥漫的铁轨跑去。
He finally shakes off the guards and bolts toward the misty tracks.

疯狂的乘客：布达佩斯！只有那儿是安全的……
Maniacal Civilian: Budapest! That's the only safe place.

疯狂的乘客：啊——！！
Maniacal Civilian: Ah!

世界忽然倾斜。
The world tilts.

男人脚底一空，不慎从月台坠落。
The ground gives way beneath him. He slips from the platform.

傲慢的乘客：噢，我的上帝……
Arrogant Passenger: Good Lord!

站务员：先生，请立刻上来！火车马上就要进站了！
Station Staff: Sir, take my hand. The train's coming.

哭声、尖叫声和口哨声此起彼伏，几乎淹没了远处列车的汽笛声。
Cries, screams, and whistles rise in chorus, nearly drowning the train's steam whistle in the distance.

疯狂的乘客：……
Maniacal Civilian: ...

男人迷茫地站在铁轨中央。他流了很多血，又摔伤了一条腿。
The man stands dazed in the center of the tracks. His legs are bent at obtuse angles, broken and bleeding.

可他似乎感觉不到痛。
But he smiles.

喧哗声中，一道漆黑的烟柱随着鸣笛声出现在暮色之下。
A thick black column of smoke cuts into the dusky sky, rising along with a loud whistle.

平民Ⅰ：是列车……“多瑙黎明号”来了！
Civilian I: It's the train. It's the "Danube Dawn"!

年复一年，战争的阴影盘踞在这片土地上，如影随形，挥之不去。
Year after year, the shadow of war clings to this land, relentless, unshakable.

就在这片破碎土地的尽头，“多瑙黎明号”缓缓驶来，如同暴风雪中唯一幸存的孤舟。
But still, the "Danube Dawn" makes its journey, like a dutiful soldier marching alone through rain, sleet, and storm.

她就在那里，带着自由与生的希望。
She arrives bearing hope for freedom and for life.

疯狂的乘客：“多瑙黎明”……布达佩斯……
Maniacal Civilian: The "Danube Dawn" ... Budapest ...

他终于记起自己该做什么，于是踉跄着奔向车头。
At last, he remembers what he must do and stumbles toward the engine.

站务员：不，先生，不——！！
Station Staff: No, sir! No—!

疯狂的乘客：我来了……母亲、父亲，玛丽娜……
Maniacal Civilian: I made it. Mother, Father, Malina ...

列车吞吐着烟雾逐渐逼近，车灯在暮色中晕开一圈又一圈昏黄的光。
The train exhales smoke as it nears, headlights spilling dim yellow circles into the twilight.

男人艰难地向前挪步，将他那伤痕累累的、总是笼罩在哭声与枪炮声中的故土抛在背后。
The man limps forward along the tracks.

疯狂的乘客：票，我有票……让我上车……让我上车！
Maniacal Civilian: Here's my ticket. Let me in. Let me in!

男人高声呐喊，举起左手，用力挥动着那张薄薄的车票。
He cries out, waving the thin ticket in the air.

这是他挣扎至今唯一的凭证，也是他通向新生的唯一钥匙。
He waves it like a protective charm, like the key to life were in his hand.

疯狂的乘客：我有票——！！
Maniacal Civilian: I have a ticket—!

列车呼啸而过。铁轮碾过他的血肉，像碾死一只误入轨道的蚂蚁。
The train thunders as it grinds to a stop—too late. Momentum and weight carried on iron wheels pulverize his flesh,

轰鸣声持续不断，震颤穿透地面，将愤怒、疯狂、恐惧——他的一切都压入冰冷的铁轨。
crushing rage, madness, and fear—everything—into the cold steel.

而那张染血的车票，此刻也悄然从他的指缝间滑落，被列车带起的风拖曳向远方。
The bloodstained ticket slips from his fingers, carried up and far away.

车门开启，头戴眼罩的乘务员着急忙慌地跑了下来。
The train door opens, and a stewardess with an eyepatch rushes out in a panic.

乘务员女孩：怎么会这样……
Train Stewardess: Oh my ...

乘务员女孩：请大家保持冷静，我们需要先确认一下事故情况……
Train Stewardess: Everyone, please remain calm. We need to inspect the scene.

平民Ⅰ：让我上车吧……小姐，看在上帝的份儿上，我不想死在这里……
Civilian I: Please let me in, miss! For the love of all that's good, don't let us die out here.

平民Ⅱ：这是最后一趟车了，对不对？发发善心吧……
Civilian II: This is the last train, isn't it? Please, you have to help us.

强烈的求生本能驱使着人们如潮水般涌上，将车门围得水泄不通。
The crowd surges forward toward the opening doors. The gore and horror that only just occurred is forgotten in their desperation.

焦灼的目光和声声恳求汇成海洋。
A roiling mass of faces filled with stark fear and determination and bodies jostling for position.

而那张雪片儿般飞走的车票，在无人在意的地方，悄无声息地飘到了另一人眼前。
Meanwhile, the ticket drifts unseen, landing silently before another.

塞梅尔维斯：……？
Semmelweis: ...?

调查员下意识伸出手，指尖即将触到染血的纸张时，眼前忽然降下了漆黑的帷幕。
Yet as Semmelweis reaches out to it, she's met by a shadowy apparition.

下一秒，飘在半空中的车票早已失去踪影，仿佛从未存在过。
Before she can react, the shadow and the ticket are gone, vanishing into thin air.

塞梅尔维斯：……影子？
Semmelweis: A shadow?

塞梅尔维斯：似乎是某种神秘术……
Semmelweis: It could be some kind of arcane skill.

调查员默不作声地扫过眼前拥堵的人潮，寻找着“影子”的来源。
The investigator scans the crowd in silence, searching for the source of this "shadow."

严肃的女士：安娜贝尔，威廉——快跟上来。这里很容易走散。
Solemn Lady: Annabelle, William, come along. We wouldn't want to get lost now, would we?

小女孩：等等我，多萝西女士……
Girl: Wait for me, Ms. Dorothy.

不是这里。
Not here.

乐天派的绅士：10型蒸汽机！这匹铁马跑起来，连阿尔卑斯山的风都追不上！
Convivial Gentleman: A Class 10 steam engine! When this beauty gets goin', it'll run faster 'n the wind blows over the Alps!

乐天派的绅士：复合式汽缸懂么？就像老裁缝的顶针套顶针，蒸汽要转两道弯才舍得吐气……
Convivial Gentleman: Has a compound engine, you understand? Steam's got to go through two stages 'fore it gets pumped out the top.

也不是这里。
Not here, either.

人潮依旧。调查员摇摇头，提起行李箱正准备登车时，耳畔忽然传来声音。
Finding no further clues, her pressing mission returns to the forefront of her mind. She picks up her suitcase and joins the madly churning queue.

野树莓：当人们都在拼命往前赶时，站着一动不动可是很危险的。
Rubuska: Crowd's starting to rush—not safe to stand around.

野树莓：麻烦让一让，女士。
Rubuska: Excuse me, coming through.

擦肩而过的间隙，调查员敏锐地捕捉到了男孩手中攥着的那张染血车票。
In the brief moment they pass each other, the investigator spots the bloodstained ticket clenched in the boy's hand.

塞梅尔维斯：请稍等一下。
Semmelweis: Please, wait.

对方似乎没有听见她的发话，像急匆匆要赶着上车一般，加快了步伐。
He seems not to hear her call, hurrying on as if rushing to board, quickening his pace.

调查员伸手试图拦下，男孩却灵敏地矮下身子，她只来得及碰到那顶深色的毡帽。
The investigator attempts to stop him, but the boy ducks; her reaching fingers brush across the top of the dark felt hat.

塞梅尔维斯：……？
Semmelweis: ...?

野树莓：糟了！我的帽子……
Rubuska: Hey, my hat!

毡帽被挤落，一张女孩的脸被迫从阴影中剥离出来。
The felt hat falls away, revealing a girl's face.

浅色的长发挣脱了帽子的束缚，飘散在风中。
Her hair spills free, drifting in the wind.

苍白的皮肤，红色的眼眸，以及一对尖牙——再标准不过的血食怪长相。
Pale skin, red eyes, and fangs—she's the spitting image of a vampire.

塞梅尔维斯：红色的眼睛……
Semmelweis: Red eyes ...

女孩匆匆低下头，阻绝了调查员探究的目光。
The girl bows her head, cutting off the investigator's sight.

野树莓：啧，真倒霉。
Rubuska: Tsk. You're kidding.

野树莓：那顶帽子才陪了我三天……
Rubuska: I only got that hat three days ago.

趁着调查员发愣的间隙，她灵巧地往人潮中一跃——
Seizing the pause, she leaps into the throng.

转眼之间，像落入芦苇丛中的蜻蜓，她就这样消失在了人群里。
In an instant, like a dragonfly into reeds, she disappears into the crowd.

调查员上前两步，捡起地上一顶平平无奇的……帽子。
The investigator steps forward to grab her sole piece of evidence—a hat, plain and unremarkable.

塞梅尔维斯：……
Semmelweis: ...

塞梅尔维斯：努力想伪装成普通人的血食怪吗……这样标准的血食怪样貌，她应该被收集进基金会资料室那些厚厚的图鉴上。
Semmelweis: A vampire disguised as a normal person. Though far from perfectly. They could add her picture to the Big Book of Vampire Faces back at headquarters.

她跑得那么快，快到来不及把自己的帽子给拿走。
If nothing else, it tells her the girl values a clean getaway over her disguise.

TMW-02 羊肠线 / Catgut

意外留下的余波仍在车站回荡，争吵与惊叫声此起彼伏。
The full weight of the earlier travesty finally hits the crowd, as shrieks and shouts of horror divert the attention of even the most desperate.

瘦小的身影穿行在这片混乱之中，灵活而谨慎地避开纷争。
With one exception—a small and slight figure that darts between the gawking crowd.

野树莓：呼，那个缠人的家伙没有跟上来……就在这里上车好了。
Rubuska: Phew. Didn't follow me. Alright, guess I'll just board here.

她长出了一口气，扶在膝盖上的手却开始颤抖起来。
She exhales, though her hands tremble on her knees.

野树莓：……
Rubuska: ...

胃部的空虚开始扩大，转为渴望，转为疼痛，让她开始有些头晕眼花。
The adrenaline fades, and rising against it comes the ache of overlong hunger. Her head feels like a weightless balloon.

野树莓：……忍住，野树莓，忍住。车上一定会有好吃的……
Rubuska: A little longer yet, Rubuska. There'll be food for days on the train.

野树莓：当务之急是先上车……
Rubuska: All you have to do now is get on.

她安抚着自己的肚子，缓慢地直起身来。
She presses her belly, slowly straightening.

如同一位悠闲地等待检票上车的乘客，她手插裤袋，汇入队列之中，漫不经心地看向前方正面露难色的小乘务员。
She slips her hands into her pockets, blending into the line, and glances at the flustered young stewardess.

车门前方，乘务员摊开双手，安抚、劝解着四周情绪激动的乘客。
At the train door, the stewardess spreads her arm, pleading with the agitated crowd.

乘务员女孩：请、请您稍候一会儿，乘务组正在核实身份……
Train Stewardess: Please wait a moment while our attendant confirms your identity.

傲慢的乘客：抱歉，我现在必须上车——立刻、马上。
Arrogant Passenger: I've waited quite enough, thank you very much. Let me aboard this instant.

傲慢的乘客：想必你们也看见了，那些平民是怎么惹出骚乱的……这样的噩梦没人想经历第二次。
Arrogant Passenger: You saw the chaos those peasants raised—a living nightmare, I tell you. And I certainly don't wish to experience it again.

乘务员女孩：我完全理解您的心情，索尼娅女士。可是列车有规定，请您再等等……
Train Stewardess: I-I understand your concern, Madam Sonya, but we must follow the train's regulations. Now, if you'd just wait a moment longer—

眼前的情境显然超出了乘务员日常处理事务的复杂程度。她涨红了脸，不知所措地挡在乘客与车厢门中间。
Her face burns red as she stands helpless between passengers and carriage.

索尼娅：恕我直言，你的眼罩是遮住了全部两只眼睛吗？
Sonya: Hmph! Have you lost your other eye, too?

索尼娅：所有人都瞧见了，我的票被那个无礼的家伙抢了过去，现在还给弄没了。
Sonya: My ticket was snatched by that belligerent fellow who tumbled onto the tracks. Everyone can attest to the fact.

索尼娅：不必要的程序请立刻省去。否则我将立即给铁路局写信，详细叙述今天发生的一切。我相信他们会对这起小小的“意外”很感兴趣……
Sonya: Now I beg you to skip all this unnecessary rubbish, else I will be forced to write to the railway administration! I'm sure they'll be very much interested to hear about this little "incident."

乘务员女孩：女士，您先等一下好吗？我需要请示我的上级——
Train Stewardess: Please, madam, if you'd just wait for another moment, I'll go and ask my superior.

乘务员单手便将激动的乘客拦在车门外。
Despite their difference in size and in station, the little stewardess is able to hold back the agitated woman with a single hand.

索尼娅：噢！你这粗鲁的丫头……！
Sonya: Hmph! What a crass little girl you are!

？？？：艾玛。
???: Aima.

车厢中传来了厚重的女声。
From within comes a woman's voice, deep and grave in its authority.

？？？：我来解释吧。
???: I'll take care of this.

身着制服的女人走到车门前，身躯在地上投下一片巨大的阴影。
The uniformed woman with a patchwork face approaches the door, a long shadow stretching out behind her.

野树莓：嗯，那是……？
Rubuska: Wh-Who's that?

嗅到危险气息的女孩下意识往后躲了两步。
On instinct, the girl takes a few cautious steps back, avoiding the frightening visage of this new figure.

索尼娅：不必浪费时间，谁来解释都一样……啊！你、你是？
Sonya: Oh, don't waste our time. I don't care who explains what's— *gasp* Who—who are you?

？？？：为您解决问题的人。
???: The solution to your problem.

索尼娅：缝线、伤疤……哦！想必您就是传闻中的那位列车长……？
Sonya: Stitches ... Scars ... Oh! You're that conductress everyone has been talking about.

索尼娅：咳，我的票被人……
Sonya: Ahem, as I explained, eh, my ticket has been—

原本尖锐的声音渐渐低了下去，竟带上了一丝紧张。
Her shrill tone softens, now touched with nervousness.

告死鸟：刚才的情况我已经了解了。请放心，女士。
Corvus: I've been made aware of this situation. These tickets are made with an arcane process.

告死鸟：车票都经过了神秘术的特殊处理，无需担心被人冒用。
Corvus: No one will use your ticket without your consent.

告死鸟：而且，这类事件很常见，我们几乎每天都会处理。
Corvus: Attempts at ticket theft are a familiar thing.

她面无表情，眼神已瞥向那最不起眼的角落之中。
Expressionless, the woman glances into the most unremarkable corner.

告死鸟：从未有过遗漏。
Corvus: But we have never lost a single ticket.

野树莓：——！！
Rubuska: ...!

女孩对于危机的嗅觉向来灵敏。她当即转身，可刚打算迈出脚步——
The girl's instinct for danger has never failed her. She turns at once, ready to move ...

野树莓：哎哟！
Rubuska: Ow!

右脚仿佛被灌了铅，将失衡的女孩拽倒在地。
Her right foot feels weighed down, and she is all at once pulled to the ground.

微弱的电流悄然游走在女孩脚下，仿佛有意识一般将她困在原地。
A faint stinging buzz of electricity flows beneath the girl's feet, as if holding her there.

野树莓：嘶，好麻……那家伙的神秘术？
Rubuska: Ah, that stings. That's her arcane skill?

脑海中不期然闪过一个画面。
A thought flashes through her mind.

野树莓：……！
Rubuska: ...!

一步、两步……脚步声越来越近。
One step, two ... the footsteps grow closer.

告死鸟：车票上的神秘术会指引我们找到它，它离我们很近。
Corvus: The arcane processing on the ticket will lead us to its location. It's close.

野树莓：冷静，冷静……野树莓。这没什么大不了的。
Rubuska: *calming exhale* Okay, stay calm, Rubuska. Nothing to panic over.

野树莓：所有事情都是这样发生，然后被你解决……
Rubuska: Do what you always do. It's worked so far.

女孩深吸一口气，嘴角上扬，确信自己摆出了此生最谄媚的笑容，随后转过头去。
She inhales sharply, lips curling into what she hopes is her sweetest, most flattering smile, then turns her head.

野树莓：晚上好，女士……
Rubuska: Ah, good evening, my fine lady.

野树莓：——！！
Rubuska: ...!

告死鸟：晚上好，这位小姐。
Corvus: Good evening, miss.

野树莓：我……我现在感觉不太好……
Rubuska: I-I'm not feeling so good.

告死鸟：请交出您裤子左边内侧口袋里的车票。
Corvus: Please surrender the ticket. It's in your left trouser pocket.

野树莓：你怎么知道——呃，不好意思，您指的是什么票？
Rubuska: How do you—Uh, I mean, what ticket, heh?

告死鸟：“多瑙黎明号”的车票。билет за влак，车票。听明白了吗？
Corvus: A ticket for the "Danube Dawn." билет за влак, train ticket. Understand?

告死鸟：小姐。
Corvus: Miss.

声音如同压在肩膀上的力量般，沉重地落在她的身体上，让她无法逃离。
Her tone falls like a sledgehammer, pinning her into place.

野树莓：我认错，我认错！我没有偷，我只是……只是看到它飘在空中，就抓住了……
Rubuska: Alright, alright! I didn't steal it. I just saw it floating in the air, you know, finders keepers and all—

野树莓：呃……！
Rubuska: Urgh!

女孩身体一轻，衣领忽然勒住了脖子。
Her body lifts as her collar cinches tight around her throat.

她被列车长轻松拎起，脚尖离地，瘦小的身躯在半空中轻轻飘荡。
The conductress hoists her up with a disturbing ease.

野树莓：……？
Rubuska: ...?

她难以置信地看着自己晃来晃去的鞋尖，一时间连情绪都迟到了半拍。
She stares in disbelief at her swaying shoes, her emotions struggling to catch up.

告死鸟：艾玛，把她的车票拿出来，它在——
Corvus: Aima, take the ticket. It's in—

艾玛：裤子左边内侧的口袋里！我都听见啦。
Aima: Left trouser pocket. I know.

头戴眼罩的乘务员笑眯眯地走了过来，朝野树莓伸出手。
The stewardess approaches with a cheerful smile, reaching a hand toward her waist.

野树莓：狗屎！放我下去——
Rubuska: Hey! Hey! Put me down!

野树莓：嘿，别随便碰我！
Rubuska: Get your hands off me!

告死鸟：你似乎没有办法停止说话。需要帮忙吗？
Corvus: That mouth has a habit of running off. Should I sew it up for you?

列车长指尖隐约泛出发光的符文。女孩只能紧闭上嘴，不再言语。
Faint runes shimmer at the tips of the conductress's fingers. The girl wisely clamps her mouth shut.

艾玛：咦……硬币、红色的药瓶，还有布条和笛子！你的魔法口袋能装这么多东西呀！
Aima: Hmm. Coins, a red bottle, a few strips of cloth, and a flute. There certainly is an awful lot in here. Is this some kind of magic pocket?

野树莓：……哼。
Rubuska: Hmph.

乘务员小心翼翼地翻动女孩的口袋，凑近她的耳畔。
The stewardess searches the instructed pocket. As she does, she leans in close to whisper in the girl's ear.

艾玛：别害怕。列车长不会真的伤害你，我们只想把车票还给它的主人。
Aima: Don't worry, the conductress won't hurt you. We just want to retrieve the ticket.

艾玛：找到啦！索尼娅女士，请确认一下，这是您的车票吗？
Aima: Found it. Madam Sonya, please take a look. Is this your ticket?

乘务员朝车厢里招招手。焦急的乘客女士快步走来，接过那张染血的车票。
She gestures to the carriage. A frantic passenger hurries forward and takes the bloodstained ticket.

索尼娅：啊，没错！就是它，我那多灾多难的车票！
Sonya: Oh, yes. This is it. Oh, thank goodness you've found it!

她将车票捧在手心，像一个祈祷的女孩。
The woman cradles it in her palms like a prayer.

野树莓：……
Rubuska: ...

女孩泄气般安静下来，如同一块悬挂在树梢随风摆动的破布。
The girl falls limp, like a rag caught in the wind.

几枚硬币，一个药瓶，几片破布条和一支笛子。这就是她的全部了。
A few coins, a bottle, some strips of cloth, and a flute. All the possessions to her name.

她不愿意数这是第几次了——捡到好运，却又很快弄丢了它。
Her luck has run thin—not that she had much to begin with.

野树莓：我只是……太饿了，实在太饿了。我没有想伤害任何人……
Rubuska: I'm just hungry. So hungry. I never meant to hurt anyone.

野树莓：有钱人总有上车的法子，我只是想吃顿饱饭……
Rubuska: Rich people always find a way to get onto these trains. I just thought that maybe I could get on to have a meal.

最后一点委屈被她咽下肚子，她知道这并没有用。
She swallows her last protest.

野树莓：好了，票也还了。放我下来，我自己会滚得远远的……
Rubuska: You've got your ticket back. So, how about letting me down? I'll see myself off.

？？？：看来，你又给我惹麻烦了。
???: There you are. What sort of trouble have you gotten up to this time?

心灰意冷之际，一个不曾料想到的“陌生人”来替她解了围。
A familiar, if unexpected, savior emerges from the crowd.

深发深眸的调查员信步而来，目光掠过被拎在半空中的女孩，毫无波澜。
The dark-haired, dark-eyed investigator strides forward, paying only a passing, if meaningful, glance to the dangling girl.

塞梅尔维斯：晚上好，列车长女士。您手中的这位小姐——她是我的助手。
Semmelweis: Good evening, Conductress. Would you mind letting her down? This is my assistant.

塞梅尔维斯：请问她为您的工作造成什么不便了吗？
Semmelweis: May I ask what sort of inconvenience she's caused?

调查员手里拿着一顶帽子，她顺手将其扣回女孩的头上，物归原主。
She sets the wayward hat back onto the girl's head.

野树莓：……？
Rubuska: ...?

女孩愣了一瞬，立刻理解了状况。
The girl freezes, then immediately understands. Eyes wide beneath the brim, cheeks flushing red.

野树莓：对、没错！我是她的助理野树莓！你可算找到我了，头儿……
Rubuska: That-That's right! I'm Rubuska, her assistant! What took you so long, boss?

野树莓：雪下得那么大，我都不知道该上哪儿找你……
Rubuska: I couldn't find you anywhere, what with all the snow ...

告死鸟：……
Corvus: ...

列车长放下女孩，平静地看着眼前口音、穿着和气质都毫无共同点的二人。
Corvus lowers her to her feet, studying the two odd figures—so unalike in accent, dress, and bearing.

告死鸟：助手？
Corvus: Assistant?

野树莓：是的，我们有一些非常要紧的事务在身，要不是分开了的话……
Rubuska: Uh, y-yeah! We're on a very, very important mission, haha. But we got separated.

塞梅尔维斯：你已经耽误不少时间了，我们走吧——这次记得拿好你的车票。
Semmelweis: We've wasted enough time. Let's go, and don't forget your ticket this time.

一张崭新的车票递交到野树莓的手里。
A brand-new ticket is pressed into Rubuska's hand.

这原是为七十七分队的成员准备的车票之一，现在它有了新的主人。
Once meant for one of the presently missing members of Squad 77, it now belongs to her.

塞梅尔维斯：如果再发生类似的事情，我会按工作规章准则来处理。
Semmelweis: If you cause trouble like that again, I won't hesitate to punish you, in line with the proper regulations.

野树莓：……谢谢您。
Rubuska: Sure, sure. Thank you.

女孩连连点头，握紧车票，朝调查员投去复杂的一瞥。
She nods rapidly, clutching it tight, casting the investigator a conflicted glance.

告死鸟：……好吧，二位。
Corvus: I see. In that case …

告死鸟：那我代表“多瑙黎明号”列车欢迎两位客人，祝你们旅途愉快。
Corvus: On behalf of the crew of the "Danube Dawn," I wish you a pleasant journey.

她轻轻颔首，摆出一副公事公办的模样。
She dips her head, businesslike.

告死鸟：我们已经因为刚才的事故耽误了不少时间。这里风雪很大，请两位先上车取暖。
Corvus: We're running late now, and the snow is getting heavier.

告死鸟：若有其他事宜，我们可以在车厢内详谈。
Corvus: Come aboard. If there are any other matters to discuss, let us do so in the warmth of the train.

乘客们陆续上车，兴奋地四处观望着。
Passengers file aboard, excitement in their eyes.

乘客Ⅱ：噢……这辆列车似乎比预想的还要更加奢华。
Passenger II: How splendid! This train is more luxurious than I ever imagined!

戴帽子的绅士：毕竟是昔日的豪华专线。听说在它的黄金时代，每一趟车都是贵族与名流们争相集会的社交场合……
Hatted Gentleman: Well, she was a luxury express once upon a time. I heard that durin' her golden age, each journey she took was like a social event in itself, filled up to the brim with nobles and celebrities ...

调查员在人群中四处张望了一会儿，依旧未能发现她的同伴们。
The investigator scans the crowd, but it seems her reinforcements are nowhere to be found.

通讯器也静默着，没有等到任何回复。
The communicator remains silent. No reply.

塞梅尔维斯：……看样子，任务得改为单人执行了。
Semmelweis: It appears I'll have to finish this mission myself.

塞梅尔维斯：呵……倒也不错，回去还能向基金会多要一笔奖金。
Semmelweis: Heh. It's not all bad. At least I'll have a little bonus waiting for me when I get back to the Foundation.

她轻叹一声，眼角的余光捕捉到一抹鬼鬼祟祟、正缓缓蠕动着试图离开的身影。
She offers a soft sigh before turning her sharp glance back to her first catch of the evening—mid-slink in a second escape attempt.

塞梅尔维斯：你似乎走错方向了，野树莓小姐——我们的座位在那边。
Semmelweis: You're going the wrong direction, Ms. Rubuska. Our seats are this way.

野树莓：啊哈，是吗……？
Rubuska: Haha, ha, of course they are.

女孩尴尬地挠了挠头，目光落在调查员轻轻握住女孩胳膊的手上。
The girl scratches her head, feigning awkwardness. But her eyes shoot to the investigator's hand now firmly grasping her arm.

野树莓：我很感谢您，女士……多亏了您我才能上车。
Rubuska: Thank you so much, ma'am. I never would've gotten on board if it weren't for you.

野树莓：可我现在很穷，手头没什么可以报答您的。等到了布达佩斯，如果您还记得我……
Rubuska: I really don't have anything to repay you with, though. Tell you what, when we get to Budapest, if you still remember me—

塞梅尔维斯：不用这么着急离开，野树莓小姐。我还有几个问题需要你来回答。
Semmelweis: Not so fast, Ms. Rubuska. I have some questions for you.

野树莓：呃……
Rubuska: …

拉扯间，车厢内忽然安静下来。
The carriage goes utterly silent despite the commotion of boarding.

女孩顺着人们的视线往后望去，列车长与乘务员正一同站在车门前方。
She follows the others' eyes now locked on the conductress and stewardess standing together at the end of the carriage.

告死鸟：欢迎大家乘坐由维也纳-潘诺尼亚运输公司经营的列车“多瑙黎明号”。
我是列车长告死鸟，这位是主乘务员艾玛。
Corvus: Welcome aboard the "Danube Dawn," operated by Vienna-Pannonian Railways. I am Corvus, your conductress, and this is Aima, your chief stewardess.

告死鸟：“多瑙黎明号”东起伊斯坦布尔，西至维也纳，总路线约800英里，中间将经停尼卡与布达佩斯两个站点。
Corvus: The "Danube Dawn" travels from Istanbul to Vienna, a journey of a little more than 800 miles, with stops in Nika and Budapest.

告死鸟：由于刚才的事故，我们还需要配合当地政府进行调查。为此，列车将推迟至晚餐后启动。
Corvus: Due to an unfortunate incident at the station, our departure will be delayed until after dinner while we cooperate with the local government's investigation.

告死鸟：为表歉意，我们为各位准备了比以往都要更加丰盛的免费餐食。
Corvus: As an apology, we have prepared a substantial meal for every passenger.

野树莓：免费的餐食……！
Rubuska: Free food!

女孩的眼睛“唰”的亮了起来，与此同时，剧烈的饥饿感也一同涌入。
Her eyes flash bright, her stomach quivers with anticipation.

她按住自己略带颤抖的手指，又迅速调整了表情，掩饰住自己的虚弱。
She steadies her trembling fingers and masks her weakness with a smile.

塞梅尔维斯：看来你对免费的食物很感兴趣。
Semmelweis: I see you have a particular interest in food.

调查员微笑着看向女孩，语气温和。
The investigator smiles at her.

塞梅尔维斯：如果你需要的话，可以吃掉我的这一份。
Semmelweis: You're welcome to my meal, if you'd like.

塞梅尔维斯：不过，作为交换，我希望你能老老实实地待在这儿，别到处乱跑，更别再惹上什么麻烦。
Semmelweis: But in return, you need to sit here and stay out of trouble. Do we have an agreement?

野树莓：哇哦，听上去可真诱人！可是……
Rubuska: Well, I mean ... It is tempting, but—

女孩无辜地眨了眨眼。
The girl blinks.

野树莓：我只是个普通人，不值得您这样的女士为我费心。
Rubuska: Why're you doing all this? I'm just an ordinary girl. Why do all this for me?

塞梅尔维斯：我很快就会放你离开。
Semmelweis: I'm not keeping you, if that's what you're thinking. You're free to go anytime.

调查员笑眯眯地凑近女孩，压低了声音。
She leans closer and lowers her voice with intent.

塞梅尔维斯：如果你真如你所说的那样“普通”。
Semmelweis: That is, if you really are a "normal" girl as you claim.

塞梅尔维斯：那位列车长很敏锐，如果被她发现我们并非同僚，你恐怕很难继续待在车上。
Semmelweis: That conductress is sharp. If she figures out you're not my assistant, it may be difficult to convince her not to throw you out.

塞梅尔维斯：更何况……
Semmelweis: And to top it off ...

她环顾四周逐渐落座的乘客们。贵族、军人、作家……人们热烈地攀谈着，对即将展开的旅途充满了期待。
Around them, the rich, the powerful, officers, and writers each settle into their seats, lively chatter filling the carriage with anticipation.

塞梅尔维斯：这趟车远不如它看起来那样安全。
Semmelweis: I don't think this train is anywhere near as safe as it first appears.

TMW-03 用餐愉快 / Bon Appétit

晚餐时间到来，乘客们紧绷的神经终于有所松动。大家围坐在灯光下，开始进食、饮酒、攀谈，笑声此起彼伏。
Dinner arrives, and the tension eases. They hunch over their trays to eat, drink, and chatter, laughter rising and falling.

当然，也有一些小小的“插曲”。
Of course, there are a few "incidents."

索尼娅：这是……牛肉炖菜？
Sonya: You call this beef stew?

艾玛：很抱歉，索尼娅女士。现在是战争时期，我们食物供应十分紧张，质量可能有所下滑……
Aima: I truly am sorry, madam. I'm afraid the war has limited our ability to procure supplies up to our usual standards. It may taste slightly different from our usual fare.

索尼娅：可这也太不像话了，它吃起来简直像过了火的牛革！
Sonya: "Slightly different"? This is boiled cowhide in a thin gruel!

女士气恼地放下手中的刀叉。
She slams her knife and fork down in anger.

索尼娅：战争这，战争那……人们都爱把它当作偷懒的借口。
Sonya: It's always "war this" and "war that" with you people. Excuses piled on excuses!

索尼娅：我付了和以往同样价格的车票钱，当然有资格要求获得同样水准的服务。
Sonya: I paid my fare, the same as usual; I deserve the service I've come to expect.

戴帽子的绅士：真叫人寒心啊，索尼娅女士。
Hatted Gentleman: Wouldn't you say that's a touch harsh, ma'am?

戴帽子的绅士：外面多少人还在挨饿受冻。您倒好，居然还有闲情挑三拣四。
Hatted Gentleman: There's people out there gettin' shelled to kingdom come beggin' for any scraps they can get.

索尼娅：呵呵……阿不思诺先生，你们英国人除了站在世界另一端评头论足，就不能做一些对自己人生更有意义的事吗？
Sonya: Hah! Isn't this what you Brits do—stick your noses into a lady's business and levy pointless accusations? Don't you have something better to do with your miserable little life?

索尼娅：比如去外面晒晒太阳，或者……天哪，做顿不怎么像湿袜子的饭？
Sonya: Perhaps you ought to try feeling the sun on your skin, or, I don't know, cooking a meal that doesn't taste like wet socks?

阿不思诺：嘿，女士——
Arbuthnot: Oh, that's rich, you—

绅士面红耳赤地站起身，背后却传来一声轻笑。
The gentleman flushes red and rises. A stifled giggle sounds behind him.

一位女士坐在他们身后奋笔疾书，眼神不时从笔记上抬起。
A woman sits behind them, scribbling purposefully as they speak.

阿不思诺：这位女士，请问你这是在做什么……？
Arbuthnot: What're you doin', ma'am?

？？？：观察，记录。
???: Me? Just recording what I see.

撰稿人优雅地合上笔记本。
The editor closes her notebook with grace.

？？？：“突发争吵，战时炖牛肉引爆国籍冲突！女士怒怼英国绅士：你们连饭都不会做？”
???: "Train Clash: Beef Stew Sparks National Conflict! Lady Accuses British Gent of Abominable Cooking" ...

？？？：“战火未完，餐桌先燃：一位女士的牛肉炖菜之怒。”
???: Or perhaps, "Battle at the Dinner Table: One Woman's Rage over Beef Stew."

？？？：你们可以接着吵下去，为我提供更多创作的灵感。
???: Don't let me stop you. This is all excellent material.

索尼娅：哼，该死的小报编辑……
Sonya: Hmph. Journalists ...

空心木：眼光不错，我确实是一名编辑，也会写一些报道。我叫空心木。
Verity: That I am. Though, I'm primarily an editor. But I write reports whenever a good one comes along. Call me Verity.

空心木：如果二位发现了有趣的素材，尤其是关于神秘学家的传言，欢迎联络我，我愿意提供对等的报酬。
Verity: If you have any interesting material, especially about arcanists, please contact me. I will pay accordingly.

阿不思诺&索尼娅：……
Arbuthnot & Sonya: ...

争吵在不经意间被调停。
The pair falter, unable to reply, and return to their dinner. The quarrel, now soothed, leaves the stewardess effusively grateful.

艾玛：谢谢您，女士。
Aima: Thank you ever so much, madam.

空心木：别担心，小可怜。
Verity: Don't you worry, poor thing.

撰稿人侧过脸，托腮望向角落里大快朵颐的乘客。
The editor props her head in one hand, turning to watch a passenger feasting in the corner.

空心木：起码不是每个人都认为你们的餐食很糟糕。
Verity: At least someone's enjoying the meal.

野树莓：唔、唔……我很久没有……这么痛快地吃一顿饱饭了……
Rubuska: *munching* I haven't had food like this in *gulp* forever!

面对良久未见的食物，女孩的犹豫最终拜倒在了饥饿之下。
The sight of food, real food, melts away the girl's anxieties.

她进食的样子算不上失态，但速度和胃口都相当惊人。
The speed and ferocity with which she eats is startling, yet the investigator spies a curious inconsistency—good table manners.

野树莓：谢谢你，女士……
Rubuska: Thank you, ma'am!

塞梅尔维斯：你可以叫我塞梅尔维斯。
Semmelweis: It's Semmelweis.

塞梅尔维斯：有人告诉过你吗？你的眼睛颜色很特别。
Semmelweis: Has anyone ever told you that your eye color is very unique?

野树莓：是吗……谢谢夸奖。
Rubuska: Yeah? Uh, thanks.

女孩抬起头，眼睛掩在帽檐的阴影下，那是异于常人的瞳色。
Rubuska lifts her head, eyes shadowed by her brim—unusual eyes.

野树莓：你刚才说，这趟列车没有它看上去的那么安全……
Rubuska: You were saying that this train isn't as safe as it looks.

野树莓：这是什么意思？
Rubuska: Why'd you say that, exactly?

她伸手压低了自己的帽檐。
She presses her hat lower.

塞梅尔维斯：世上很少有表里如一的人，人们往往抱有不同的目的，并为达成这些目的各怀鬼胎。
Semmelweis: People rarely match their deeds to their words. They may say one thing, but I've found their true motives to often be much darker.

塞梅尔维斯：比如车上的这些乘客，比如那位列车长，以及……
Semmelweis: Anyone could be a danger. The passengers, the conductress, or even ...

塞梅尔维斯：你。
Semmelweis: You.

她摊开手，展露出一种十分真诚的无奈。
Her tone is not forceful, falling short of accusation, still Rubuska cannot help but make her case.

野树莓：塞梅尔维斯小姐，无论如何，我是一个连饭都没得吃的人，也不会对任何人造成威胁。
Rubuska: Ms. Semmelweis, all I am is a hungry kid looking for food. Look at me, how could I be a threat to anyone?

塞梅尔维斯：但你拿走了别人的车票，不是吗？
Semmelweis: You did take that woman's train ticket, yes?

她语气温和，敏锐的话语却如同尖刺。
Her voice is gentle, but her words piercing.

野树莓：我……好吧，我是拿走了那张车票。
Rubuska: I ... Well, yeah, I took it.

野树莓：我已经四天没有吃到一顿正常的饭了。这对我来说是个活下去的机会。
Rubuska: But, I hadn't eaten anything for four days. I needed to do something to survive.

野树莓：我并不想伤害那位女士……如果可以的话，我希望那位女士也能登上这趟列车。
Rubuska: I didn't mean to do her any harm. I figured maybe they'd let her on anyway, and then we'd both get on, and there'd be no trouble.

女孩不自觉涨红了脸。调查员沉静地看着她，仿佛早已洞悉一切。
The girl flushes red. Semmelweis holds her stare, as if already knowing the truth and waiting for a confession.

良久，她突然莞尔一笑。
At last, she allows a smile to slip from her face.

塞梅尔维斯：为了活下去，这并没有什么可指摘的。事实上，你也没有造成任何伤害。
Semmelweis: No one can blame you for trying to survive in these conditions. At the very least, you weren't the cause of any harm.

塞梅尔维斯：我只是很好奇，你究竟用什么手法从我眼前拿走了那张车票。
你的神秘术，我说的对吗？
Semmelweis: But there is one thing I'm curious about. How did you reach that ticket earlier? It was your arcane skill, wasn't it?

野树莓：……
Rubuska: ...

沉默已经表明了问题的答案。意识到自己的破绽，女孩生硬地转移了话题。
Her silence is the answer. Realizing her slip, she stiffly changes the subject.

野树莓：你说每个人都表里不一，那你呢？你能坦白地告诉我你的身份和目的吗？
Rubuska: "People rarely match their deeds to their words," then, what about you? What are you doing here?

塞梅尔维斯：调查那些会造成影响的“表里不一”，就是我的工作。
Semmelweis: I'm here to investigate this "duplicity."

她不动声色地回避了问题的本质，从座椅背后拿出一个文件夹。
She sidesteps the question, producing a folder from her briefcase.

塞梅尔维斯：接下来轮到我提问了……
Semmelweis: But our arrangement was for you to answer the questions.

她从文件夹中抽出一张白色的纸条。
She draws out a white slip of paper.

塞梅尔维斯：你见过这个图案吗？
Semmelweis: Have you seen this pattern before?

野树莓：嗯……
Rubuska: Hmm.

野树莓：这个嘛……我当然见过啦。应该是在某个市场……不，可能是在路过的墙上。
Rubuska: Yeah ... Yeah, I've seen it. Maybe in a market? Uh, or, on a wall somewhere.

野树莓：如果您之后能放我走，我或许能更细致地搜索一下我的记忆……
Rubuska: I might be able to search my memory more carefully, that is, if you let me go later.

女孩正盯着眼前的符号冥思苦想，纸条便被轻巧地抽离。
The girl eyes the symbol again, as if thinking hard. But the facade drops.

塞梅尔维斯：你很聪明。不过很遗憾，你的演技还有待提升。我想我已经得到自己想要的答案了。
Semmelweis: You're quite clever. Unfortunately, your acting skills could use a little work, which means I already have my answer.

塞梅尔维斯：你并非他们中的一员。
Semmelweis: You're not one of them.

野树莓：……啧。
Rubuska: *sigh*

女孩有些懊恼地皱起眉毛。
She frowns bluntly.

塞梅尔维斯：最后一个问题。你知道血食怪的传说吗？
Semmelweis: One last question. How familiar are you with vampiric legends?

塞梅尔维斯：听说他们都有一双“特别”的眼睛，就像……
Semmelweis: It's often said that their eyes have a peculiar quality, just like ...

她意味深长地看向女孩暗红的双瞳，成功在其中捕捉到了一丝慌乱。
She meets the girl's crimson eyes, catching a flicker of panic.

野树莓：我、我完全不明白你在说什么……
Rubuska: I-I have no idea what you're talking about.

告死鸟：打扰一下。这位小姐，方便占用你几分钟吗？
Corvus: Excuse me, madam. A moment of your time.

骤然出现的声音打断了步步紧逼的追问。列车长站在车厢的另一头，朝调查员招手示意。
A voice cuts the tension. At the far end of the carriage, the conductress raises a hand, beckoning the investigator.

塞梅尔维斯：……
Semmelweis: ...

塞梅尔维斯：我很快回来，希望你能履行“助手”的职责，不要再随意离开了。
Semmelweis: Stay put. I'll be back soon. Do exactly as a good little assistant would do, understood?

塞梅尔维斯：要知道，血食怪可不是这列车上唯一危险的东西。
Semmelweis: Vampires aren't the only dangerous things that may lurk on this train.

野树莓：……遵命，头儿——
Rubuska: Sure thing, boss—

对“助手”做出叮嘱后，调查员起身离开，朝着列车长那儿不紧不慢地走去。
After warning her "assistant," the investigator rises and makes her way toward the conductress.

告死鸟：她不是你的同伴。
Corvus: That girl is not your assistant.

告死鸟：别试图瞒过我，我能看出来。你们没什么默契，你和那小姑娘认识的时间不会超过半个钟头。
Corvus: Save your explanation. I doubt you've known each other for more than half an hour.

列车长倚着墙壁，毫不留情地点破了调查员的谎言。
The conductress leans against the wall in what must, for her, be a supremely exaggerated gesture.

塞梅尔维斯：我认为这属于乘客隐私。或许战时没那么多讲究，但我想我们仍然得遵守最基本的人道主义原则，您觉得呢？列车长女士。
Semmelweis: I wouldn't have expected you to probe into matters of passenger privacy. I believe we should abide by certain basic humanitarian principles, even during wartime. Wouldn't you agree, Conductress?

告死鸟：如果你只是一位普通乘客，那你的事与我无关，我没有理由也没有兴趣介入。
Corvus: If you were an ordinary passenger, as you claim, I wouldn't have "probed."

告死鸟：但你来自那个什么“基金会”，我说得对吗？
Corvus: But you are from that "Foundation," correct?

她的目光落在调查员胸前的徽章上。
Her gaze falls on the badge at the investigator's chest.

告死鸟：我见过你的徽章和黑白格纹。通常来说，基金会的人出现意味着……麻烦。
Corvus: That badge with the black-and-white print. Wherever the Foundation shows up, trouble follows.

塞梅尔维斯：不必紧张，列车长女士，也许我只是去维也纳休假呢？
Semmelweis: No need to be nervous, ma'am. I'm just on my way to Vienna for a little holiday.

告死鸟：能让你冒险穿过战区，花费重金购买车票，我猜这一定是很重要的假期。
Corvus: Aboard an express train bound to pass through a war zone—you must take your vacations very seriously.

塞梅尔维斯：……
Semmelweis: ...

调查员轻叹一口气，掏出自己的基金会身份证件。
The investigator sighs and pulls out her Foundation ID.

塞梅尔维斯：圣洛夫基金会，这是我的证件。
Semmelweis: St. Pavlov Foundation. I'm sure you'll find my identification is in order.

告死鸟：圣洛夫基金会……
Corvus: St. Pavlov Foundation ...

告死鸟：调查员，塞梅尔维斯。
Corvus: Investigator Semmelweis.

列车长将工作证双手交还给调查员，语气没有丝毫改变。
The conductress returns the card without a change in tone.

告死鸟：我明白了。调查员小姐，有什么我能为您服务的吗？
Corvus: I see. Is there anything that I might do for you, Investigator?

塞梅尔维斯：我收到了情报，一名危险的血食怪极有可能潜藏在您的列车上。因此，我需要您的配合以进行调查。
Semmelweis: We've received intelligence that there may be a dangerous vampire on this train. I could use your help in the investigation.

调查员开门见山，直接抛出任务的主题。
She cuts straight to the point, stating her mission boldly and without restraint.

告死鸟：血食怪……
Corvus: A vampire.

听到“血食怪”一词，列车长的脸色蒙上了一层阴翳。
A grim shadow passes over the conductress's face.

告死鸟：这儿的人从小听血食怪的故事听到大，它只是民间传闻，从来没人真的见过血食怪。
Corvus: You're chasing fairy stories. If you ask around, all you'll get is a hundred different stories; none of them real.

告死鸟：如果这是你的任务目标，我恐怕很难给予帮助。
Corvus: I can't help you chase a myth.

列车长坐回沙发上，顺手拿起一旁的棒针和毛线，无比自然地编织起来。
She returns to the sofa, picking up a pair of knitting needles.

告死鸟：请坐，调查员小姐。希望你不介意我额外的工作。
Corvus: Please have a seat, Investigator. I hope my handicraft doesn't bother you.

塞梅尔维斯：这是……什么？
Semmelweis: W-What are you working on?

告死鸟：围巾，给艾玛的。
Corvus: A scarf for Aima.

塞梅尔维斯：……
Semmelweis: ...

调查员定了定神，竭力将注意力从列车长上下翻飞的棒针中移开。
Semmelweis steadies herself, forcing her eyes away from the flickering needles.

塞梅尔维斯：关于情报的真伪，只有调查后才能下定论。倒是您的态度……
Semmelweis: I've been tasked with verifying the authenticity of this intelligence. However, your attitude ...

她脑海中忽然划过一个可能性。
A thought flashes through her mind.

塞梅尔维斯：您刚才说过，您认识这个徽章和标志。所以，您最近还看到过戴着和我一样徽章的人吗？
Semmelweis: You mentioned that you've seen this badge and pattern before. Was it someone you met recently?

告死鸟：我在“多瑙黎明号”上已经很多年了，调查员。除了血食怪，我什么样的东西都见过。
Corvus: I have worked on the "Danube Dawn" for many years, Investigator. I have seen everything except a vampire.

她从针脚细密的织物中抬起眼睛，看向调查员。
The conductress lifts her eyes from the tight stitches to meet hers.

塞梅尔维斯：我明白了。
Semmelweis: I see.

塞梅尔维斯：那么，假定您从未见过血食怪。可以理解，人的确很难想象自己从未见过的事物。
Semmelweis: Then let's presume you're telling the truth. It's understandable that it would be difficult to imagine something you've never seen.

调查员身体前倾，毫不避让地直视列车长的眼睛。
The investigator leans forward.

塞梅尔维斯：根据基金会提供的资料，血食怪是极为危险的物种，只要被他们咬伤，不论人类，抑或神秘学家，有极大概率会在短时间内毙命。
Semmelweis: According to our intel, vampires are extremely dangerous creatures. Once bitten, death is a near certainty, regardless of whether the victim is human or arcanist.

塞梅尔维斯：这些不幸的产物，通常被称为“感染种”。
Semmelweis: Those few who survive become what is known as "Infected."

塞梅尔维斯：他们正如哑弹，无人知晓他们会在什么时候突然失控。
Semmelweis: They're like a bomb with a broken fuse, no predicting when they'll go off.

塞梅尔维斯：列车长女士，这正是摆在您面前亟待解决的问题——一趟封闭的列车上，有可能隐藏着一名血食怪。
Semmelweis: Therein lies our problem, Conductress. We believe one such vampire is hiding somewhere on this train.

塞梅尔维斯：想必你我都很清楚，他会对全体乘客造成怎样的威胁。您打算就这样视而不见吗？
Semmelweis: There's no need to exaggerate the threat this may pose to your passengers. You aren't going to turn a blind eye now, are you?

告死鸟：……
Corvus: ...

列车长不自觉地皱了皱眉，随即自然地看向门的方向。

艾玛：列车长，我接到车站的讯息，他们希望能和您当面确认一些问题——咦？
Aima: Conductress, the station staff said they want to confirm something in person with—Huh?

告死鸟：眼前的二人隔得很远，脸上的表情都不太好看，似乎刚经历一场不愉快的对话。
Corvus: The two women sit facing one another, their expressions cold and serious.

艾玛：噢！你们似乎在谈很重要的事，那么我一会儿再……
Aima: Oh, am I interrupting something important? My apologies, I'll just ...

告死鸟：等等，我和你过去。
Corvus: Wait. I'll go with you.

列车长轻轻将围巾放在沙发一角。
The conductress sets the scarf on the sofa's edge.

告死鸟：不好意思，我得失陪一会儿。
Corvus: Excuse me for a moment, Investigator.

告死鸟：一个行政流程，为了刚才掉下铁轨的旅客。列车和车站都需要一同配合。
Corvus: It's an administrative process for the passenger who fell on the tracks.

“行政流程”。列车长刻意强调了这个词。
"Administrative process." She stresses the words.

告死鸟：我们走吧，别让他们久等。
Corvus: Let's go. Best not to keep them waiting.

她从敞开的车门离开，乘务员则像小鸭子般跟在她身后。
She leaves through the open door, her stewardess trailing behind like a lost duckling.

隔着厚厚的玻璃，调查员正通过口型仔细辨认着双方的对话。
Semmelweis watches the guards on the platform, studying the movement of their lips.

车站守军：出了这样的事故，我们必须向上头交代……
Platform Guard: Our supervisors need an answer.

车站守军：……必须暂停发车，除非……
Platform Guard: The train can't depart unless ...

塞梅尔维斯：准备借事故之名勒索吗？战乱年代倒不是什么稀罕事。
Semmelweis: Are they trying to blackmail her? I suppose it isn't unheard of in times of war.

塞梅尔维斯：如果真能晚些发车，倒是更利于我的调查……
Semmelweis: A long stop could prove helpful to my investigation.

意料之外的，列车长并未对守军的无理要求有过多反应，只是从怀中掏出一枚徽章交给了对方。
Unexpectedly, the conductress does not resist the guards' demands. Instead, she produces a badge.

车站守军：哈哈，原来是自己人……
Platform Guard: Oh, so you're one of us, hahahahaha.

原本紧绷的态势和缓下来，就连列车长脸上也带了一丝淡淡的笑意。
The standoff ends. A faint smile creeps over Corvus's face.

塞梅尔维斯：……列车和当地驻军有关系？不，如果他们真的这么熟悉，就不会有这个“行政流程”了。
Semmelweis: Could the railway be working with the army? No, then this conversation wouldn't be happening.

塞梅尔维斯：还有她交出去的东西，似乎是一枚徽章……
Semmelweis: Is she handing him a badge?

像是感觉到车内的注视，列车长忽然抬起头。
Then, as if sensing her eyes, the conductress suddenly turns to the window.

告死鸟：……
Corvus: ...

几乎是在一瞬间，列车长原本笑着的脸迅速垮了下来。
Her smile collapses in an instant.

塞梅尔维斯：真是敏锐。
Semmelweis: Perceptive, aren't you?

她状似随意地靠回沙发，看着列车长与乘务员正一前一后走在漫天飞舞的风雪中。
She leans back, watching as the conductress and stewardess disappear from view.

走到车门前，列车长停下脚步，背朝乘务员利落地挥了挥手。
On the steps of the train, the conductress halts and waves her hand briskly.

告死鸟：通知车站，去轨道上撒砂。准备发车了。
Corvus: Alert the station to begin sanding the tracks. We're departing soon.

TMW-04 雪夜快车 / The Midnight Piercer

伴随一声急促的鸣笛，列车终于启动，开足马力行驶在一望无际的漆黑原野上。
With a sharp whistle, the train surges forward, chugging with growing speed into the black expanse.

野树莓：呼……终于发车了！
Rubuska: Phew. The train is finally moving!

一路悬着的心终于轻轻落下。
Hearts long held in suspense settle, lulled by the rhythmic sway of the train.

野树莓：等到了布达佩斯，我得想想该做些什么……先吃一大份卡帕玛！
Rubuska: Now, what to do when I get to Budapest? First, eat a lot of Kapama!

野树莓：不，不对。还是得先找份工作……然后再吃卡帕玛！
Rubuska: No, no, wait. First thing's first. Find a job, then Kapama!

野树莓：……
Rubuska: ...

野树莓：找工作是为了卡帕玛，吃卡帕玛是为了找工作。
Rubuska: Find a job so I can eat Kapama. Eat Kapama so I can work harder.

女孩拿出挂在身侧的卡瓦尔长笛，手指在细小的裂纹上轻轻摩挲着。
The girl draws her kaval flute, fingers brushing the tiny cracks.

野树莓：妈妈……布达佩斯的卡帕玛，会和你做的味道一样好吗？
Rubuska: Мама, will the Kapama in Budapest taste as good as yours?

她望着窗外连绵起伏的群山，好像见到了那个在山中独自奔跑的身影。
She looks out at the rolling mountains in the distance, seeing a lone figure running along their spine.

身影穿过墓园，踩过腐烂的橙子，天空低垂得像要塌下来。
The figure dashes through a graveyard, over cold fields, beneath a sagging sky.

哦，还有声音。发疯一般的、女人的呐喊声。
Her silent film is suddenly pierced with sound—a scream that only she can hear.

野树莓：不管怎么说，妈妈，我会先填饱肚子，活下去再说。
Rubuska: Whatever happens, I'll do my best to stay alive. I promise, Мама.

女孩吸了吸鼻子，小心翼翼地收起木笛，环顾车厢四周。
The girl sniffles, putting the flute away before taking a quick look around the carriage.

野树莓：塞梅尔维斯她，应该短时间内不会回来了吧……
Rubuska: Ms. Semmelweis won't be back for a while, right?

塞梅尔维斯：调查那些会造成影响的“表里不一”，就是我的工作。
Semmelweis: I'm here to investigate this "duplicity."

塞梅尔维斯：你知道血食怪的传说吗？
Semmelweis: One last question. How familiar are you with vampiric legends?

塞梅尔维斯：要知道，血食怪可不是这列车上唯一危险的东西。
Semmelweis: Vampires aren't the only dangerous things that may lurk on this train.

野树莓：虽然她请我吃了美味的牛肉炖菜和云雀蛋糕，但她似乎对血食怪很感兴趣……
Rubuska: She did pay for my beef stew and lark cake, but she seems really obsessed with vampires.

野树莓：……不行，还是早点离开为妙。
Rubuska: No, the sooner I leave, the better.

女孩跳下座位准备离开，犹豫了一会儿，又从口袋里数出两枚硬币放在桌子上。
She jumps from her seat, hesitates, then drops two coins on the table.

野树莓：原谅我吧，好心的塞梅尔维斯小姐。有机会我一定会报答您的！
Rubuska: Forgive me, Ms. Semmelweis. I'll repay you, someday! Cross my heart!

下定决心，女孩回过头去，准备寻找下一个栖身之地。
Resolute, she turns back, searching for another refuge.

野树莓：……哎呀！
Rubuska: Ouch!

安娜贝尔：呜呜呜……
Annabelle: *sob*

安娜贝尔：安娜贝尔和她的，嗝，朋友走丢了……
Annabelle: I-I'm lost. *hiccup* I can't find my friends.

野树莓：呃……你的朋友总不至于被人打开车窗丢出去了吧，只要把列车从里到外都翻上一遍，总会找到的！
Rubuska: Uh, I'm sure you'll find them sooner or later! It's not like they were thrown off the train or something.

野树莓：别着急哦，耐心是一种美德……
Rubuska: So, just keep on searching! Go on, you can do it!

女孩匆忙地准备离开，衣摆却被紧紧攥住。
The girl hurries to leave, but her hem is caught.

安娜贝尔：姐姐，帮帮安娜贝尔……安娜贝尔现在不知道自己在哪个车厢……
Annabelle: Please help me. *sniffle* I don't know where I am.

野树莓：……
Rubuska: ...

可怜的哭声不绝于耳，足以飘至三个车厢外。
Her sobbing echoes so loudly that people three carriages away prick their ears.

一番纠缠后，野树莓不得不使出最后的“杀手锏”——她摘下帽子，露出一截小小的尖牙与暗红色瞳仁。
At last, she plays her trump card, removing her hat to reveal her fangs and crimson eyes.

野树莓：不、不许哭！我可是血食怪喔，再哭我就咬断你的脖子！
Rubuska: S-Stop crying. I'm a vampire. If you don't stop, I'll bite you!

安娜贝尔：……
Annabelle: ...

安娜贝尔：真的吗？
Annabelle: Really?

没有恐惧，也没有厌恶。
No fear. No disgust.

她得到的是听众越发好奇的、天真的疑问。
Only curiosity. Innocent wonder.

野树莓：呃，你不怕血食怪吗？红眼睛的血食怪——
Rubuska: Uh, aren't you afraid of me? I'm a red-eyed vampire. See?

野树莓又凑近了些，拉下眼睑。
She leans closer, pulling down her eyelids.

安娜贝尔：哇……好漂亮的眼睛！像红红的宝石！
Annabelle: Wow! Your eyes are so pretty! Like rubies!

野树莓：宝石？我还是第一次听人这么形容……
Rubuska: Rubies? Never heard that one before.

向来独行的血食怪不知所措地红了脸。
She flushes red, caught off guard by the compliment.

安娜贝尔：像宝石，也像大马士革的红玫瑰！
Annabelle: Rubies or-or maybe the red roses of Damascus!

野树莓：玫瑰？这……当然，还是永远不会凋谢的那一种！
Rubuska: Roses? I—Sure they are! Roses that never wither!

野树莓：你还有什么好听的、夸血食怪的话，都说给我听听！
Rubuska: Tell me more—more of these good things about vampires.

女孩兴奋地围着野树莓转悠，像小狗一样在她身上轻轻蹭着。
The girl circles her while jumping up and down like an excited puppy.

安娜贝尔：多萝西老师不让我们读血食怪的故事，说那样学不到知识，也缺乏教养，可、可是，血食怪多厉害呀……
Annabelle: But Ms. Dorothy doesn't let us read vampire stories. She says they're, um, made-up-believe. I don't care, though. I think they're amazing, don't you?

安娜贝尔：我有偷偷看那些书，我知道纯种的血食怪是最厉害的，他们都住在大大的城堡里！姐姐肯定也一样吧！
Annabelle: So I read them myself. The pure-blooded vampires are the strongest, and they live in big, big castles! You must live in one too, right?

野树莓：当、当然！既然你都这么问了……
Rubuska: S-Sure I do. Now that you mention it ...

野树莓：那我可就要跟你讲讲我荣耀的祖先们了！
Rubuska: Maybe I can tell you all about my glorious ancestors.

她假意轻咳，双手一拍，随即将自己的荣耀历史一一道来。
Rubuska coughs lightly, claps her hands, and recounts her proud history.

野树莓：在很早很早以前的……总之是很早之前的哪一年，特别特别早的一个时候吧。
Rubuska: Ahem. Long, long, long ... a lot of longs ago, back in the earliest times.

野树莓：我最最了不起的祖先，把那些从东边来的人狠狠地揍了一顿。
Rubuska: A most amazing ancestor of mine gave some invaders a good beating!

野树莓：对，没错，他就是大名鼎鼎的穿刺公！人称“德古拉”的阿诺德——阿诺德五世！
Rubuska: Yeah, that's right. He was the famous Impaler, known as Dracula, Arnold, um, Arnold V!

安娜贝尔：德古拉！德古拉！
Annabelle: Dracula! Dracula!

野树莓：太爷爷阿诺德活了一百五十五岁，最后心脏被木桩狠狠刺中，鲜血流尽而死！
Rubuska: My great-grandfather Arnold lived for 155 years! Then he took a wooden stake to the heart and bled to death.

安娜贝尔：咦，那你今年多少大了呀，姐姐？
Annabelle: Then, how old are you? Um ...

野树莓：叫我野树莓就好！我今年十四岁！
Rubuska: Name's Rubuska. I'm 14 years old.

野树莓：噢不，是二百一十四岁。
Rubuska: Erhm, I'm, I mean, I'm 214 years old.

她急忙纠正自己。
She quickly corrects herself.

野树莓：两个一百岁，再加上两个七岁，就是我的年纪。
Rubuska: Yep! I've already lived two hundred plus two times seven years.

野树莓：当然，这在我们血食怪种族里，还是非常年轻的……
Rubuska: But I'm still young for a vampire of my lineage.

少女热烈地诉说自己记忆里的故事。
The young girl speaks with fervor, reciting the stories from memory.

它们从无数个下着雪的冬季中走来。万籁寂静，炉火烧得正旺，女孩趴在母亲的膝盖上，双眼微合，几乎就要睡着了。
Stories that rise up from the endless snowy winters: silence, a blazing hearth, her head on her mother's lap, eyes drifting shut.

鲜血、夜、墓碑……她缠着母亲一遍又一遍地讲述着独属于她的瑰丽传说。
Fangs soaked with blood, moonlit nights, and dark castles ... She begged her mother to tell those wondrous tales again and again.

母亲的声音越来越轻，越来越沉……
Until her voice grew faint.

女孩于是又睡上了一个甜甜的觉，一夜好梦。
And the little girl drifted into blissful sleep.

？？？：血食怪……？
???: Vampire?

仿佛被无形的魔法牵引着，孩子们一个接一个地围拢过来。
Children gather as if drawn by unseen magic.

安娜贝尔：威廉！
Annabelle: William!

一只落单的小鸟终于找到伙伴。
The lone bird finds companions at last.

安娜贝尔：终于找到你们了！我来介绍一下，她叫野树莓——一位真正的血食怪！
Annabelle: You're here, hahaha. This is my new friend, Rubuska. She's a vampire!

孩童Ⅰ：哇，是活着的血食怪……
Child I: Wow, a real-life vampire!

孩子们激动不已。然而一个男孩却应声从阴影中走了出来，表情不屑一顾。
Excited voices fill the air, until a boy steps from the shadows, scorn written on his face.

小威廉：哼……你说你是血食怪，可你只会讲故事，什么证据都没有。
Little William: How do you know she's a vampire, huh? You don't have any proof.

孩童Ⅱ：对、对哦，这些故事我们也听过呢……
Child II: Yeah! Does she look anything like the ones in the stories?

安娜贝尔：她……她不一样！她有一双红色的眼睛哦，像红宝石一样的红色！
Annabelle: She does! Her eyes are red! Like rubies!

小威廉：可是，亨利叔叔生病的时候，眼睛也是红的呀。你还记得吗？当时你还悄悄和我说，亨利叔叔也是血食怪。
Little William: But-But when Uncle Henry was sick, his eyes went all red, and you said he was a vampire too. Remember?

小威廉：多萝西老师还训了我们一顿，说我们对亨利叔叔太没礼貌……
Little William: Ms. Dorothy even scolded us for being rude.

安娜贝尔：别、别听他的，姐姐！我知道你就是真的血食怪，我说得对吗？
Annabelle: Don't listen to him! You're a real vampire, right, Rubuska?

野树莓：当……当然是真的！
Rubuska: O-Of course I am!

女孩涨红了脸，决心捍卫血食怪一族的荣耀。
She flusters, now determined to defend the honor of her kind.

野树莓：想要证据是吧……那就给你们展示一下，真正的血食怪是什么样的！
Rubuska: You want proof? Then here it is. I'll show you what a real vampire looks like.

灯光之下，她随意左右走动了几步。
She makes a performance of strolling under the light.

野树莓：喏，你们能找见我的影子吗？
Rubuska: Take a look. Can you find my shadow?

安娜贝尔：影子……
Annabelle: Shadow ...

孩童Ⅱ：哇……真的没有影子……
Child II: Wait, you don't have a shadow!

灯光照亮了每一个孩子，每一张脸，每一双手，每一道影子——
Shadows accompany every child, an identical twin matching the movement of their hands in the darkness.

唯独她站在光中，却又像是被光绕开了似的，仿佛她本就无需遵从影子的律法，也不属于这个被光照亮的世界。
But Rubuska stands alone. As if the light itself goes straight through her, as though she was never bound to its law, never part of the world it illuminated.

野树莓：我们血食怪，是不会被照出影子的喔！
Rubuska: Exactly! We vampires don't have shadows.

孩子们：血食怪！血食怪！
Children: Vampire! Vampire!

孩童们兴奋地鼓起掌来，欢呼一声高过一声。
The children cheer louder and louder, clapping with glee.

小威廉：这……现在我宣布，这是确凿的、无疑的血食怪！
Little William: Whoa! She really is a bone-and-fide vampire!

野树莓：哼哼。
Rubuska: Told you so.

得意还没持续一会儿，下一个难题就接踵而至。
Her pride is short-lived. Another challenge soon follows.

孩童Ⅰ：既然你是血食怪，那一定什么都不怕了！你敢和那个很吓人的列车长说话吗？
Child I: So, you're a vampire. Then you must be brave. How about the scary conductress? Have you ever talked to her?

野树莓：列、列车长？咳……说话算什么，我和她可是顶要好的朋友！
Rubuska: Conductress? Umm, I mean, more than just talk. She's actually one of my best friends.

野树莓：别看她块头那么大，其实反应很迟钝，这一路少不了我的帮忙……
Rubuska: You think she's scary, huh? I'm telling you, she's big, but she's slow. If it weren't for me ...

孩子们歆羡不已地望着女孩，眼里的崇拜几乎溢满了整个车厢。
The children watch with rapt attention.

小威廉：哇……以后你就是我们的老大！
Little William: Wow, you're like a boss! Our boss!

孩子们：老大！老大！
Children: Boss! Boss!

女孩在一阵恭维声中晕眩不已，逐渐迷失自我。
She feels almost dizzy with power.

野树莓：嗯哼，既然你们强烈要求，那我只能勉为其难收了你们……
Rubuska: Well, if you insist ... Alright, fine. I'll be your boss.

告死鸟：看来你玩得很开心啊，朋友。
Corvus: Looks like you're having fun, "best friend."

一个阴沉的声音从背后响起。
A rumbling voice cuts through.

野树莓：你、你都听见了？
Rubuska: Y-You heard all that?

艾玛：我们刚进车厢，就听见你聊起列车长。真高兴你们相处得这么好呀！
Aima: We heard you the moment we entered the carriage. How wonderful to see you all getting along!

告死鸟：块头大，反应迟钝？
Corvus: "Big but slow," is that right?

野树莓：我们在玩游戏呢，哈哈，哈哈哈。
Rubuska: Haha, it's just—just a game. Hahahaha.

告死鸟：……
Corvus: ...

告死鸟：玩游戏可以，但不能阻碍车厢的过道。
Corvus: Play as you like, but don't block the aisle.

野树莓：放心，咱们可是好……好朋友，这点请求不算什么。我们会注意的！
Rubuska: Sure thing, uh, old pal. Hahaha. We'll, uh, make sure we do that.

艾玛：这些是你的新朋友们吗，野树莓小姐？
Aima: Are these your new friends, Ms. Rubuska?

乘务员的眼神在女孩与孩童们中间不住地逡巡着。
The stewardess examines the gaggle of children surrounding Rubuska.

野树莓：准确来说，他们是我的……嗯……应该是“跟班”！
Rubuska: Not just friends. They're more like, uhm, familiars!

野树莓：对吧，伙计们？
Rubuska: Right, everyone?

她努努鼻子，为自己新“收服”了“随从”而骄傲。
Rubuska sniffs, proud of her new "followers."

安娜贝尔：没错！我们是尊贵的血食……
Annabelle: Exactly! We're the familiars of the great vam—

野树莓：咳咳咳！这里太挤了，身为老大，我需要一个更加宽敞的“城堡”！
Rubuska: Ahem, ahem! This place is too crowded. I must have a larger castle, you hear me?

女孩火速打断了这个危险的话题。
She changes the subject abruptly.

野树莓：等到了新城堡，我还可以给大伙儿讲一些新的、关于“那个”的故事……
Rubuska: When we get there, I can tell you some more stories about "that."

安娜贝尔：那个？噢……那个！那个！
Annabelle: That? Oh, "that"!

孩子们：新故事！新故事！
Children: New stories! New stories!

喧闹声远去，车厢再度回归往日的宁静。
The noise fades, and the carriage returns to calm.

艾玛：真叫人羡慕呀，野树莓小姐能交到这么多朋友。
Aima: How lovely it is to see Ms. Rubuska making so many new friends. I'm almost a little jealous.

告死鸟：为什么，你没有朋友吗？
Corvus: You've never had many friends; is that why?

艾玛：我……
Aima: I …

乘务员偷偷看了一眼列车长，欲言又止。
Aima sneaks a glance at her, hesitating.

艾玛：哎呀，我想我们还是先回去吧……!塞梅尔维斯小姐还在等着呢!
Aima: Ah, it's about time we headed back. Ms. Semmelweis must be waiting.

告死鸟：嗯，走吧。
Corvus: It is. Let's go.

离开前，乘务员担忧地回望向那位调皮的乘客，想起她帽檐阴影下的笑容。
Before leaving, the stewardess casts a final worried look at the mischievous passenger, remembering her shadowed smile.

以及那双漂亮得不似真实的血色双瞳。
And those impossibly brilliant crimson eyes.

艾玛：野树莓……
Aima: Rubuska ...

TMW-05 四个半朋友 / Four and a Half Friends

列车颠簸在寒冬的风雪中。
The train rocks as it plows through the winter storm.

调查员看向窗外，脑中依然探究着那个在大雪中被递交出去的徽章。
The investigator lets her vision glaze over the scene beyond the window, still pondering the meaning of the conductress's badge.

塞梅尔维斯：她的动作很自然，显然不是第一次。
Semmelweis: She handed it over so naturally, as if she had done it countless times.

塞梅尔维斯：再加上她似乎见过基金会的人……看来这位列车长女士身上还隐藏着其他不为人知的秘密，需要更细致的调查。
Semmelweis: Plus, it appears she's encountered someone from the Foundation before. I am forced to conclude that our conductress is hiding something from me.

调查员从衣兜里掏出怀表，轻轻打开。
She pulls a pocket watch from her coat and flicks it open.

塞梅尔维斯：她们离开也有一段时间了，接下来……
Semmelweis: They've been gone for a while now. Well ...

她抬起头，眼神扫过车厢内部。
Then she looks around the room.

由于列车长的“行政流程”，调查员似乎能够在无人知晓的情况下翻看这儿的每一份载录文档。
Thanks to the conductress's fine administrative processes, every file is simple to find.

从行车时刻表到历年来的驾驶日志，这些文件于她而言，几乎触手可及。
From timetables to station logs, everything is within reach.

塞梅尔维斯：全都摆在这里，简直像是引诱我去查阅一样。
Semmelweis: These files are just sitting out on the table. Do they have no sense of confidentiality?

塞梅尔维斯：……
Semmelweis: ...

塞梅尔维斯：太容易得到的线索往往是陷阱，还是谨慎为好。
Semmelweis: An easily laid clue is often a trap, though. This could be bait. Better act cautiously.

调查员摇摇头，甩开心中的念头。
The investigator shakes her head, casting the thought aside.

告死鸟：久等了。
Corvus: I apologize for keeping you.

列车长推门而入，径直坐向她的座位，而侍候在身旁的则是她忠诚的乘务员。
Corvus enters and returns to her sofa; her loyal stewardess follows in behind.

她瞥了一眼屋内的陈设，一切依然同她离开时一样。
She takes stock of the room, confirming that nothing has changed since she left.

告死鸟：艾玛把你的行李放到了对应的座位上，别担心，“多瑙黎明号”从来没丢过东西。
Corvus: Aima has placed your luggage at your seat. No need to worry; nothing has ever gone missing from the "Danube Dawn."

告死鸟：既然你执意留在这里……那就聊聊吧，调查员。
Corvus: You've waited for some time. Where were we?

告死鸟：你先前提到上级、血食怪还有调查……
Corvus: The Foundation, your vampire, and this investigation you mentioned.

塞梅尔维斯：为了确保大家的安全，我需要对所有登车乘客的身份进行一次普查登记。
Semmelweis: To rule out any threat, I need to verify every passenger on board, carriage by carriage.

调查员转变策略，以更为直接的方式提出需求。
The investigator shifts tactics, speaking more directly.

告死鸟：……现在是战时，很多事情我们都会从简处理。突如其来的普查登记很容易让人产生不好的联想，进而引发骚乱。
Corvus: That would be controversial, especially in the midst of this war. I fear it may cause unnecessary disturbances.

告死鸟：我们都不愿意再见到白天车站发生的那一幕。
Corvus: I'm sure neither of us would like a repeat of the incident from before.

塞梅尔维斯：抱歉，我谨代表基金会前来与你进行交涉。严格来说，这是通知，而非交涉。
Semmelweis: I apologize, but my mission parameters are clear. You've misunderstood my intent; this was a notification, not a negotiation.

告死鸟：既然如此，那么麻烦出示一下允许采集乘客信息的官方同意书。
Corvus: In that case, I will need to see some formal authorization.

告死鸟：如果任何人都可以自由上车，凭借一番演讲就能对我的列车进行搜查，那我的乘客们恐怕再也不需要睡觉了。
Corvus: I won't allow someone to disturb the peace of my passengers just because they claim it to be necessary.

她挑眉望着调查员，像是笃定她手上根本没有这种东西。
She arches a brow, certain that the investigator doesn't have the authorization.

塞梅尔维斯：……多亏了“高效”的政府，我连官方同意书的影子都没看到。
Semmelweis: I fear that authorization is still little more than a draft on their desk—the "joys of bureaucracy."

塞梅尔维斯：但既然您如此看重行政手续，那么按照规定，如果您坚持不配合的话，我将会行使身为基金会调查员的权利——
Semmelweis: But as you seem to be a fan of red tape, if you refuse to cooperate, regulations state that it is within my power ...

调查员稍作停顿。
She pauses to draw out the effect.

塞梅尔维斯：紧急截停“多瑙黎明号”。
Semmelweis: To stop the "Danube Dawn."

告死鸟：……
Corvus: ...

艾玛：紧急截停？！不……
Aima: Stop the train? No.

塞梅尔维斯：很遗憾。从程序上讲，截停列车是基于条约的一项标准操作，完全合乎规定。
Semmelweis: Indeed. I am fully within my authority to stop this train at any time to conduct an investigation.

艾玛：我明白，但是……这样可能会给其他乘客造成不便……
Aima: I understand, but it could inconvenience our passengers.

塞梅尔维斯：只是对“乘客”造成不便吗？
Semmelweis: Just the passengers?

艾玛：——！！
Aima: ...!

乘务员张开嘴，又立即闭上，下意识看向身旁的列车长。
Aima opens her mouth, then closes it again, glancing at the conductress.

列车长并不言语，只轻轻拍了拍她的肩膀，随后走上前。
Corvus stands and pats her on the shoulder.

告死鸟：我明白了。
Corvus: I see.

告死鸟：我们接受你的提议，调查员。但有个条件——你的登记工作必须由乘务组亲自陪同。
Corvus: I have one stipulation that my stewardess and I accompany you during your inspection.

塞梅尔维斯：当然可以，登记工作本就应该公开透明。
Semmelweis: As you wish. I assure you the process will be carried out with openness and transparency.

告死鸟：在登记目的也公开透明的情况下，是的。
Corvus: If the purpose is likewise open and transparent, yes.

塞梅尔维斯：别担心，列车长女士。我已对你们毫无保留——在职责允许的范围内。
Semmelweis: Naturally, Conductress, I have told you everything—as far as I'm permitted, at least.

调查员保持着一贯的官方微笑。她站起身，向眼前的“伙伴”伸手示好。
The investigator maintains a practiced, businesslike smile as she extends her hand.

塞梅尔维斯：事不宜迟，现在就开始行动吧。
Semmelweis: There is no time to lose. Let's get started.

塞梅尔维斯：合作愉快，列车长女士。
Semmelweis: Glad we could come to an agreement, Conductress.

告知乘客，解释情况，登记信息……“合作”调查有条不紊地继续着。
Announcements, explanations, records ... their "cooperation" continues smoothly.

告死鸟：还有几节车厢？
Corvus: How many carriages left?

艾玛：嗯，除去驾驶室、守车和我们的休息室，再去掉这里和已经登记了的两节车厢的话……
Aima: Um, except the locomotive, the brake van, our compartment, two registered, and this one we're registering ...

塞梅尔维斯：十二减三，再减二，再减一。
Semmelweis: Twelve minus three, then minus two, then minus one.

塞梅尔维斯：还有六节车厢。
Semmelweis: 6 carriages to go.

调查员微笑着给出答案。
Semmelweis answers with a subdued smile.

多萝西：列车长，乘务员，我需要你们的帮忙……我的两个学生在车厢里走丢了。
Dorothy: Conductress, Ms. Aima, I need your help. Two of my students have gone missing.

衣着整洁、神情严肃的女士迈着稍快的步伐走来，额角已经微有汗珠。
A worried lady approaches, concern evident on her brow.

告死鸟：请冷静，女士。您和学生走散多久了？他们的样貌有什么特征吗？
Corvus: Please remain calm, madam. How long have they been missing? Could you describe them in detail?

多萝西：大概这么高，一个怀里抱着玩偶，另一个留着很短的棕色卷发，喜欢四处跑动。
Dorothy: The two of them are about this tall. The little girl always carries a doll with her, and the boy has short, brown curly hair.

多萝西：已经快要两刻钟了，就在餐车附近，他们趁着人多，把列车当成了游戏场……
Dorothy: I lost sight of them in the dining car about half an hour ago. Seems they've taken this train as some sort of playground.

艾玛：列车长……似乎是我们刚才见过的孩子们。
Aima: Conductress, they sound like the little boy and girl we met just now.

记录着样貌特征的乘务员小声提醒着列车长。
She notes down each description carefully, attentive to all the passengers.

告死鸟：哦……野树莓的“跟班”们？
Corvus: Ah, Rubuska's "familiars."

告死鸟：女士，请您回过身看看，那是不是您的两位学生？
Corvus: Look behind you, madam. Are these your students?

跟随列车长的话音，众人的视线越过半节车厢，落在车厢尾部座位的几个孩子身上。
Following the conductress's words, all eyes turn to the children at the back.

野树莓：然后呢，在荣耀而强大的阿诺德五世伯爵之后，是我了不起的祖父萨瓦诺维奇。
Rubuska: After the glorious Count Arnold V came my grandfather Savonovic!

野树莓：萨瓦诺维奇祖父带我们去了多瑙河北边的埃杰什，修建了埃杰什磨坊……不对，是城堡！
Rubuska: Grandfather Savonovic brought the whole family north of the Danube and built Arges Mill—er, I mean, Arges Castle!

野树莓：在埃杰什城堡，他活了一百六十五岁……
Rubuska: He lived to be 165 years old.

孩童们：呼……
Children: *snore*

她兴致勃勃地讲述着自己的荣耀往昔，却没注意身旁的听众已经合上双眼，几乎睡倒过去。
The girl eagerly continues her tales, unaware and unconcerned that her audience has drifted off to sleep.

多萝西：威廉！安娜贝尔！你们怎么可以没有经过我的同意就到处乱跑！
Dorothy: William! Annabelle! You can't go messing about yourselves like this!

严肃的家庭教师疾步走过去，一尘不染的裙摆扬起比平时要更大的幅度。
The governess storms over, skirt swaying wider than usual, appearing almost like a bowling ball rolling down the aisle.

安娜贝尔：嗯……唔？啊……！
Annabelle: Mmm. Hm? Ah!

小威廉：多、多萝西女士！真要命……
Little William: M-Ms. Dorothy! Uh-oh.

熟睡的孩童们一下惊醒，安娜贝尔也吓得从野树莓的膝上弹了起来。
The children jolt awake, Annabelle springing from Rubuska's lap.

多萝西：安娜贝尔！你立刻、马上给我下来，你怎么可以和……和那样的人待在一起？
Dorothy: Annabelle! You get back here right now! You should know better than to associate with that kind of company.

多萝西：还有你！威廉，赶紧给我过来！
Dorothy: That goes for you too, William! Come on, quickly!

野树莓：那……那样的人？
Rubuska: That ... that kind of company?

野树莓：是在说我吗？
Rubuska: Is she talking about me?

从这位严肃女士来回扫射的眼神之中，野树莓终于注意到自己与新朋友在衣着上的差异。
From her sharp gaze, Rubuska realizes the difference in their clothes.

一只手轻轻搭在女孩的肩膀上，打断了她的思考。
A hand lands on her shoulder, breaking her thought.

告死鸟：方便做个信息登记吗？这位小姐。
Corvus: We meet again, "old pal." We're here to register your information if you might spare the time.

野树莓：我如果说我不方便，你们会放我离开吗？
Rubuska: If I said I couldn't, would you let me go?

多萝西：列车长，我建议您好好盘查一下这个人的身份，她很有可能拐带了我的学生们……
Dorothy: I suggest you do a thorough check on her background. I suspect she could be a trafficker!

安娜贝尔：不……多萝西女士，是我迷路了……还是野树莓姐姐帮了我！
Annabelle: No, Ms. Dorothy, I was lost, a-and Rubuska helped me!

多萝西：安娜贝尔，临行前我告诉你多少遍了，在外要时刻注意身份，不管是自己的，还是别人的……
Dorothy: How many times have I told you? You are a young lady of a certain stature. It won't do to get too close to this riff-raff.

野树莓：身份……？喂，女士，请把话说清楚……
Rubuska: Riff-raff? Hey, lady, what do you mean?

艾玛：很抱歉，这位女士。这只是一次临时的乘客信息登记，并非针对野树莓小姐个人的盘查……
Aima: A-Apologies, madam, but this is just a simple passenger registration.

艾玛：别担心，我来为您登记……野树莓小姐，您的身份是？
Aima: No need to worry, Ms. Rubuska. We just have a few simple questions for you. Let's see. Um, what are you?

野树莓：我是野树莓。
Rubuska: I'm Rubuska!

她挺直腰杆，理直气壮地如此答道。
She straightens her back and speaks firmly.

塞梅尔维斯：……
Semmelweis: ...

艾玛：不、不是这样的……野树莓小姐。我的意思是……您需要登记一下种族信息。
Aima: Um, sorry, perhaps I wasn't clear. I mean your lineage.

野树莓：种族。噢，没问题！我……我是瑟尔玛尼奇人。
Rubuska: L-Lineage. Oh, sure, I'm Th-Thermanikian.

告死鸟：不是名字，不是出身地，也不是性别。
Corvus: Let's hurry this along. Not your name, nor your place of birth, nor gender.

告死鸟：“神秘学家”还是“人类”？
Corvus: Arcanist or human?

野树莓：哦！那我大概，应该是……
Rubuska: Oh! Um, then, I guess I'm ...

告死鸟：没有第三种选项。
Corvus: There is no third option.

野树莓：你怎么知道……好吧！我，我是……
Rubuska: Wow, how do you know? Alright! I, I'm—

女孩面露难色，眼神躲闪，可一旁的小孩子却替她开了口。
The girl falters, eyes dodging, but it's William that leaps to explain.

小威廉：她是我们的血食怪老大，当然是神秘学家！
Little William: She's our vampire boss; of course she's an arcanist.

多萝西：住口！威廉！谁教你这么说话的？
Dorothy: Silence, William! Who taught you to say such things?

艾玛：……咦！
Aima: Oh!

塞梅尔维斯&告死鸟：……
Semmelweis & Corvus: ...

野树莓：哈哈，我刚才和孩子们开玩笑瞎编的，这可作不得数！
Rubuska: Ha, hahaha, ah, I was just messing around with the kids.

野树莓：难、难道你们小时候没玩过过家家游戏吗？我不仅扮演过血食怪，还扮演过狼人、鲁萨尔卡……
Rubuska: Didn't you ever play make-believe when you were young? Vampires, werewolves, Rusalka ...

告死鸟：我从没有过这种经历。
Corvus: I did not.

列车长异常冷淡地打断女孩。
The conductress coldly interrupts her.

告死鸟：现在是非常时期，以后别在列车上开这种玩笑。
Corvus: Given these extraordinary times, I'll ask that there be no more such make-believe on the train.

野树莓：我发誓，我以后再也不敢了——
Rubuska: I won't do it again, I swear.

野树莓呼出的一口气还悬在半空中，一旁刚刚从睡梦中清醒，对眼前的情境感到十分困惑的女孩却开了口。
She exhales, but Annabelle, now awake and confused, speaks up.

安娜贝尔：可是姐姐，你确实是血食怪呀。
Annabelle: But you are a vampire, Rubuska.

空气变得安静。
The air stills.

安娜贝尔：你还用影子向我们证明了……你说，真正的血食怪是没有影子的。
Annabelle: You don't have a shadow. You showed us. And real vampires don't have shadows, right?

安娜贝尔：血食怪都很厉害，很强大，而且姐姐是善良的血食怪，我觉得……我觉得你们都应该尊重她。
Annabelle: Vampires are really, really strong, and Rubuska is a good vampire. S-So you should all be nice to her!

她鼓起勇气，顶着家庭教师愈发可怕的神情，声音小且坚定地为众人的态度提出了质疑。
She gathers her courage, standing firm even under the governess's glare, her voice quiet but sure as she challenges their attitude.

人们齐刷刷低头望向女孩脚下，那里的地毯上刺绣着精美的花卉与几何图样，却不见一丝阴影。
The crowd looks down to the finely embroidered carpet beneath the girl's feet and fails to find her shadow.

艾玛：呀，真的没有影子。
Aima: She's right. She really has no shadow.

野树莓：呃……糟了……
Rubuska: Uh-oh.

告死鸟：这就是你所谓的……“玩笑”。
Corvus: You call this "messing around"?

列车长上前一步，高大的身影吓得孩童们连连后退。
The patchwork conductress takes a step forward, her towering figure making the children stumble back in fear.

她的手再次搭上女孩的肩膀，兼具礼仪与力量，不让女孩有任何逃离的机会。
Her hand rests once more on Rubuska's shoulder, firm yet proper.

告死鸟：很遗憾，接下来你需要跟我们走一趟。
Corvus: You're going to have to come with us.

告死鸟：——根据“多瑙黎明号”列车安全手册，我将依照规章制度，对你进行封闭审讯。
Corvus: I'm afraid that "Danube Dawn" security protocol dictates an immediate closed interrogation.

TMW-06 野树莓的证词 / The Suspect's Testimony

野树莓：……
Rubuska: ...

你是谁？
Who are you?

野树莓：……野树莓。
Rubuska: I'm Rubuska.

野树莓：好了，别开这种玩笑了……这一点也不好玩。
Rubuska: Are we done? This isn't funny, you know.

上车的目的是什么？
What's your purpose on this train?

野树莓：去布达佩斯，找工作，讨生活。
Rubuska: I'm going to Budapest to find a job.

野树莓：快放开我……
Rubuska: Let me go.

你的其他同伴呢？
Do you have any companions aboard?

野树莓：哼，你见过成群结队的血食怪吗？
Rubuska: Hmph, vampires don't team up.

野树莓：其他人怕我还来不及呢。
Rubuska: People are too scared of me.

你是血食怪吗？
Are you a vampire?

野树莓：好吧，我是……
Rubuska: Yeah, I'm a vampire, okay?

野树莓：但是血食怪又怎么了，我什么也没做……
Rubuska: But so what? I didn't do anything.

野树莓：……
Rubuska: ...

女孩耷拉着脑袋，从头发丝到脚后跟都透着沮丧。
She hangs her head, her whole body radiating defeat.

塞梅尔维斯：她身上没有重塑之手术式的痕迹，看样子确实与他们无关。
Semmelweis: She doesn't bear any signs of Manus Vindictae's rituals. She may indeed be innocent.

塞梅尔维斯：但也不能完全排除嫌疑。谨慎起见……
Semmelweis: But can't rule her out for definite yet. Best to be safe.

她回到列车长身旁。
Semmelweis returns to the conductress's side.

塞梅尔维斯：我已经检查过了。她没有危险，不是我要找的人。
Semmelweis: I've checked her over. She's not a threat, nor is she my target.

告死鸟：所以你要找的，并非普通的血食怪。
Corvus: Then this isn't any ordinary vampire you're searching for.

塞梅尔维斯：很抱歉，我只按规章办事，更具体的细节不便透露。
Semmelweis: I'm not at liberty to say.

野树莓：哦……你们都听到了吧？她说过了，我没有危险！
Rubuska: You hear that? She says I'm not a threat!

她再度雀跃起来，脸上也恢复了一点血色。
Soon, she perks up again, a hint of color returning to her face.

塞梅尔维斯：不过按照规定，血食怪属于危险生物，理应被收容监禁。
Semmelweis: But, according to regulations, dangerous creatures like vampires should be contained in such situations.

野树莓：呃……？
Rubuska: Huh?

塞梅尔维斯：这是为了其他乘客的安全着想。一只饥饿的小血食怪，又是在列车这样的封闭空间里——你的存在本身便是一种威胁。
Semmelweis: It's for the safety of all passengers. A hungry young vampire in an enclosed space like the train is always a risk.

野树莓：我……我不接受监禁。我现在也不饿！
Rubuska: N-No, don't lock me up! I'm not even hungry!

塞梅尔维斯：这不是请求，是告知。既然你承认自己是血食怪……
Semmelweis: This is not a request; it's a notification. You've already admitted that you're a vampire.

野树莓：血食怪血食怪血食怪！血食怪又怎么了？！
Rubuska: Vampire, vampire, vampire! Yeah, I'm a vampire, so what?!

女孩抬起头，眼里升起两团熊熊燃烧的怒火。
Her ruby eyes seem ablaze with fury.

野树莓：我咬过任何人吗？我吸过任何人哪怕一滴血吗？我伤害过任何人吗？
Rubuska: Have I bitten anyone? Have I sucked any blood? Have I hurt even a single person?

野树莓：真搞不懂你们这些人……
Rubuska: I don't understand you people.

野树莓：你们老爱把人分门别类，戴上不同的帽子，再根据这些帽子来决定你们的态度，就好像你们的大脑只是源源不断的帽子的奴隶。
Rubuska: Always putting everyone in boxes and then treating them differently just because you put them there! It's like your brains are all square or something!

野树莓：上一秒我们还是朋友，下一秒你们就要把我绑起来。一切都是因为这些帽子。
Rubuska: One minute we're friends, and then the next you're tying me up. All because of these boxes you're so obsessed with.

野树莓：就因为这些愚蠢的帽子，到处都在打仗，野树莓只能四处流浪……
Rubuska: It's because of these boxes—these stupid labels—that this whole war started. Why I have nowhere to go?

野树莓：现在你们迫不及待想要为我戴上帽子，很好，我可以满足你们。
Rubuska: And now you can't wait to do the same to me. Then, fine, go ahead!

配合着语调，她的眼中逐渐蓄满泪水。
Tears begin to streak down her face.

野树莓：没错，我就是血食怪！既然大家都讨厌我们、害怕我们，那还愣着干什么……
Rubuska: I'm a vampire! Everyone hates me! Go on! What are you waiting for?

野树莓：快快服从帽子的神圣意志，将我钉死在木桩上吧！
Rubuska: Follow your rules! Pierce me through with a stake!

告死鸟&塞梅尔维斯：……
Corvus & Semmelweis: ...

艾玛：哇！野树莓，你……
Aima: Goodness, Rubuska, you ...

车厢内一片寂静。人们打量着眼前的少女，仿佛又重新认识了她。
The carriage is silent for a moment. The passengers stare at the girl as if seeing her anew.

列车长默默将缠绕在女孩身上的毛线圈松开少许。
The conductress loosens the strings that bind her.

告死鸟：抱歉，你挣扎得太厉害，我们不得不……
Corvus: Apologies, we had to tie you up to prevent you from—

野树莓：啊哈，终于露出破绽了——
Rubuska: Ah-ha! The weakness is revealed.

野树莓：我咬！
Rubuska: Take this, pal!

野树莓：呃啊——我还一口都没咬到呢……
Rubuska: Argh! I didn't even get a good bite in!

“囚犯”徒劳的反抗被列车长轻而易举地化解，列车长握住她的肩膀，使她动弹不得。
Resistance is futile. The conductress pins her down with ease.

告死鸟：你很勇敢。
Corvus: You're brave.

告死鸟：很莽撞。
Corvus: Bold, even.

告死鸟：但很遗憾，我还不能放开你。
Corvus: But you're not going anywhere for now.

野树莓：放开我……放开——
Rubuska: Let me go! Let me—

告死鸟：交给你了，调查员。“多瑙黎明号”不是拘留所，我们没有义务替你看管小孩。
Corvus: I'll leave her to you, Investigator. The "Danube Dawn" is not a detention center. We have no obligation to take care of your travel companion.

塞梅尔维斯：……
Semmelweis: ...

一个不大不小的“麻烦”。
A minor nuisance, nothing more.

如果不是那几个失踪的队友，调查员并不介意做一天临时教管。
If it were not for her missing teammates, the investigator wouldn't mind playing chaperone for a day.

艾玛：……我们可以代为看管她的，对吗，列车长？
Aima: But, perhaps we could offer a personal favor to Ms. Semmelweis?

一直沉默的乘务员小心翼翼地开口。
The stewardess, silent until now, finally speaks with a strange note of eagerness.

艾玛：找一个车厢，然后把她放进去。我、我会负责照顾——不对，看管小树莓的！
Aima: I'm sure I could find an empty room to take care of her, I mean, keep an eye on her.

告死鸟：……
Corvus: ...

告死鸟：今天晚些时候列车会抵达边境检查站。
Corvus: The train will arrive at the border checkpoint later today.

告死鸟：在此之前，由我们来看护她。
Corvus: She can stay with us until then.

调查员轻轻松了一口气，这似乎是眼下唯一的选择。
Semmelweis lets out a steady, meaningful breath, resigned to this course of action.

塞梅尔维斯：感谢您的配合。
Semmelweis: I appreciate your cooperation.

野树莓：等等，你们问过我的意见了吗？又想把我关到什么地方！
Rubuska: Wait, what about what I think? Where are you taking me?

仿佛看出了“囚犯”的不安，乘务员轻轻握住了她的手。
Sensing the girl's unease, Aima gently takes her hand.

艾玛：你可以去我的房间，小树莓。
Aima: You can stay in my room, Rubi.

艾玛：我的房间里还有一张沙发，里面填充了最柔软的鹅毛。你要是困了，就好好睡一觉。
Aima: There's an extra sofa stuffed with goose feathers. It's ever so soft. You're welcome to have a rest there if you're tired.

野树莓：小树莓？
Rubuska: Rubi?

野树莓：不管怎么说，鹅毛做的沙发，听上去还挺诱人……
Rubuska: Come to think of it, that sofa does sound tempting.

告死鸟：这叫“软禁”。
Corvus: Call it "house arrest."

告死鸟：走吧，带她过去。
Corvus: Allow us to escort you.

一大一小两个身影穿行在狭小的列车走廊中。
The two figures march down the narrow train corridor.

一个被拎起衣领，另一个几乎顶到了天花板，二者紧密依靠，像是不可分割的有机和谐整体。
One dangles by her collar, the other nearly scraping the roof. Together, an inseparable, uncanny whole.

野树莓：哎哟，轻点儿！你扯着我的头发了……
Rubuska: Ach, watch it! You're pulling my hair!

野树莓：我要把你们全都咬一遍……我发誓……
Rubuska: I'll bite you! All of you! I swear ...

如果忽略一点小小的杂音的话。
If you ignore the faintest bit of noise, that is.

TMW-07 多瑙黎明 / The Danube Dawn

野树莓：非法拘禁——非法拘禁——放我出去——
Rubuska: This is illegal, you know? Criminal! Let me out.

野树莓：放我出去……
Rubuska: Let me out.

女孩大声叫嚷着，右耳紧贴在门背上，恨不得要将自己整个儿塞进去。
The girl shouts, pressing her right ear hard against the door, desperate to melt into it.

“嗒嗒，嗒……”
"Tap, tap ... tap ..."

脚步声越来越轻，伴随着回音在空旷的走廊里逐渐消失。
The footsteps grow fainter, echoing down the empty hallway.

野树莓：嗯……终于走远了！接下来嘛……
Rubuska: Phew, finally gone. Alright, Rubuska, what's next?

她从破布条中抽出一根金属小玩意儿，凑近门锁。
She pulls a metal trinket from her rags and brings it to the lock.

野树莓：想把我关起来？
Rubuska: Think this lock'll stop me, eh?

野树莓：这么个门锁可难不倒我。
Rubuska: Hmph. You're going to have to try harder than that.

野树莓：好耶，成了！
Rubuska: Gotcha!

门悄无声息地打开了一道缝。
The door opens, only to a sliver, just wide enough for a ruby eye.

野树莓：很好，附近没有人。
Rubuska: Okay, coast is clear.

野树莓：轻松搞定。不愧是你，野树莓！
Rubuska: Hah. Easy. You've done it again, Rubuska.

她双手叉腰，正准备向自由迈出一步——
She plants her hands on her hips triumphantly, only one more step before freedom.

艾玛：小树莓？
Aima: Rubi?

野树莓：——！！
Rubuska: ...!

野树莓：你、你从什么地方冒出来的……
Rubuska: Wh-Where did you come from?

艾玛指了指背后。当门打开时，小乘务员的身影便被这扇门给牢牢挡住了。
Aima gestures behind her. As the door swings open, the small stewardess is revealed, standing in place.

野树莓：你，我，呃……
Rubuska: You, I, uh ...

未曾料想的情况使女孩陷入了短暂的大脑空白。错过了最佳的辩解时机，女孩只能放弃挣扎。
Caught off guard, Rubi freezes. She doubts her chances to talk her way out of this.

野树莓：好吧，你想怎么办？要去给你的老大打小报告吗？
Rubuska: Alright, I'm caught. So, what, you going to report me to your boss?

艾玛：嘘……
Aima: Shh ...

乘务员伸出食指放在嘴唇上，朝野树莓眨了眨眼。
The stewardess presses a finger to her lips and winks at Rubuska.

艾玛：小声一点，他们会听见的。
Aima: Be quiet, or they'll hear you.

艾玛：你好像在害怕，我能闻到。
Aima: Are you afraid? I can smell it on you.

野树莓：害怕？那你恐怕还不了解我。所以……你会告诉她们吗？
Rubuska: Afraid? *scoff* Clearly you don't know me. So, are you going to tell them or not?

艾玛：没关系。只要你不乱跑，我不会告诉她们的。
Aima: As long as you don't go running off, I won't.

乘务员左右张望一眼后，走入室内，轻轻关上房门。
She checks the hall, then slips inside, delicately closing the door.

野树莓：你、你想做什么？列车长她们人呢？
Rubuska: So, uh, why are you here? Where's the conductress?

艾玛：塞梅尔维斯小姐说她还需要查阅一点儿有关列车的资料，两个人现在一同待在守车里呢。
Aima: They're in the brake van. Ms. Semmelweis needs to check over some files.

艾玛：放心吧，不会有事的。一个人看门总是容易犯困……不如我们来聊聊天吧。
Aima: Don't worry. Anyway, it's a bit dull all alone in here. Why don't we have a chat? Come, sit next to me.

乘务员轻巧地坐上沙发，拍了拍身旁的空位。
Aima reclines on the sofa, patting the space beside her.

野树莓：我……
Rubuska: I …

女孩看了看自己黑乎乎的手心和裤脚。
The girl glances at her dark palms and ragged cuffs.

野树莓：我身上不干净，会弄脏你的沙发。
Rubuska: My clothes are kind of dirty. I don't wanna mess up your sofa.

艾玛：没关系……我是沙发的主人，我说了算。
Aima: Really, I don't mind.

野树莓：……
Rubuska: ...

温声的宽慰并未起到应有的作用。女孩仍旧站在原地，仿佛双腿生了根。
Warm words don't reach her. She stays rooted to the floor.

艾玛：既然你不愿意……
Aima: Hmm, then how about ...

乘务员忽然合掌一拍，灵光一闪般抓起野树莓。
The stewardess claps her hands, then seizes Rubuska as if inspired.

艾玛：那我来给你换一件衣服，这样你总愿意和我一块坐下来了吧！
Aima: Ah! Let's get you changed! Then you can join me without a worry!

野树莓：你，你要做什么……哎哟，你力气好大……
Rubuska: Wait, I didn't—Ah, Lord, you're strong!

艾玛：这件，还有这件……找到了！
Aima: Not this ... or this one ... Ah! Found you!

艾玛：来，看看这件！
Aima: Here, put this on!

野树莓：……
Rubuska: ...

艾玛：这看起来……真可爱！
Aima: Oh my! You look wonderful!

野树莓：合身吗？
Rubuska: Does it fit?

艾玛：非常、非常、非常合身！
Aima: Oh, it fits you splendidly!

艾玛：现在我宣布，这件衣服是你的了！
Aima: I hereby declare that these clothes are yours to keep!

野树莓：真、真的吗……
Rubuska: R-Really?

天晓得她多久没换过一身干净衣服了。
God knows how long it's been since she's worn clean clothes.

红白相间的针脚紧密相扣，在裙摆上画出一个美丽的弧度。
Red-and-white stitching traces arcs across the hem of her skirt.

女孩一眨也不眨地看着它们，说不出一个拒绝的字眼。
She chokes back words, trying to believe what she sees.

野树莓：谢谢你，艾玛。
Rubuska: Thank you, Aima.

野树莓：对了。这里有这么多衣服，为什么没有镜子呀？
Rubuska: Hold on, why don't you have a mirror in your room? You've got so many clothes.

乘务员羞赧地摸了摸右眼的眼罩。
The stewardess shyly touches her eyepatch.

艾玛：我、我的眼睛不好看，不习惯照镜子。
Aima: Oh, I don't much like mirrors. My eyes aren't very pretty.

野树莓：真是胡说！你明明那样好看，那样……
Rubuska: What're you talking about?! You, I mean, your eyes, um, eye looks good—more than good! You're ...

野树莓：……总之，你什么都很好。
Rubuska: Well, in short, you're good through and through!

说完她挠了挠头，勉强将视线调转到眼前衣物堆积的小山上。
She scratches her head, gaze sliding to the pile of garments stacked nearby.

野树莓：以前我也有这么大一柜子东西，绸子的、羊毛的，纱的……什么料子都有。
Rubuska: I used to have a closet like yours, filled with silks, cashmere, corduroy ... All kinds.

野树莓：这么多衣服，都是你自己收藏的吗？
Rubuska: Did you buy all these clothes yourself?

艾玛：不是哦，大多是我的家人送给我的。
Aima: Oh, no. Most of them are from a family member.

艾玛：他说乘务员的生活太单调了，就连制服也是……所以只要出了远门，他就会带新的衣服给我。
Aima: He said that life as a stewardess is as boring as our uniforms, so whenever he goes off on a long trip, he buys me new clothes.

艾玛：这样我穿上新衣服的时候，就好像也陪家人一起去了那些地方。
Aima: That way, no matter how far apart we are, I always feel like he's right here with me.

野树莓：家人……哼，确实挺单调的。我像你这么大的时候，已经一个人跑过很多地方啦！
Rubuska: Family. Pft, boring! By the time I was your age, I'd already been halfway around the peninsula all by myself.

艾玛：哈哈，你的生活听上去好精彩呀！不过我觉得，在列车上也不错呢。
Aima: Haha, goodness, that sounds wonderful! But I think my life is rather pleasant too.

艾玛：看着不同的乘客上上下下，每天都有新的故事。对我来说，这也是一种“旅行”。
Aima: Every day the train welcomes new passengers, all bringing their own stories. I can "travel" without ever having to leave.

艾玛：还有列车长，她虽然总是板着脸，但一直都在照顾我们。不仅如此，她还是一位顶好的裁缝呢！
Aima: And the conductress looks after us. I know she seems stern and maybe a little angry, but she's truly lovely underneath, and a wonderful tailor too!

女孩指向车窗边摆放着的一排套娃。
She points to the row of matryoshkas by the window.

艾玛：你看！这些娃娃身上的衣服也是她亲手织的，是不是很可爱？
Aima: See the clothes on the matryoshkas? She made every single one. Aren't they darling?

套娃们身着保暖的、花色活泼的小毛衣，朝野树莓露出整齐划一的、憨厚且无害的微笑。
Each wears a colorful knit sweater, their smiles stiff yet harmless.

野树莓：……
Rubuska: ...

野树莓：我有个问题，艾玛。这趟列车上该不会有两个列车长吧？
Rubuska: Wait, sorry. Are there two conductresses on this train?

野树莓：不然我实在难以想象……不，我完全无法想象……
Rubuska: I mean, I just, no, I can't picture it at all.

野树莓狠狠甩头，试图甩开意外涌入脑海的诡异场景。
Rubuska jerks her head, attempting to banish the uncanny image.

野树莓：列车长？织毛衣？
Rubuska: That conductress? Knitting little sweaters?

野树莓：不……光是想象这个场景，就已经叫人很害怕了……
Rubuska: *shudder* Just imagining it is giving me the creeps.

告死鸟：……
Corvus: ...

塞梅尔维斯：列车长女士，您的东西掉了。
Semmelweis: Conductress, you dropped this.

红色的线团滚落到正在一旁整理资料的调查员脚边。
A ball of red yarn rolls to Semmelweis's feet.

调查员拾起它，无比自然地递到列车长身边。
She picks it up, handing it back to the conductress.

告死鸟：谢谢。有关列车的资料都在这里了，行车日志在左边第一个抽屉，交接班记录本在右边第二个抽屉最底层，调度指令就在桌上……
Corvus: Thank you. All the files are here. Logbook's in the first drawer on the left; shift handover logs are at the bottom of the second drawer on the right; dispatch instructions are on the table.

塞梅尔维斯：我明白了，感谢您的配合。
Semmelweis: Much appreciated. Thank you again for your cooperation.

叮嘱完成后，列车长继续织起手中长长的围巾，不声不响地坐在沙发上“陪伴”着调查员的工作。
Without a word, Corvus resumes her handiwork; the scarf billows out with every stitch, keeping silent company.

难得和平的共处时光。或许，这也是一个了解对方的好机会。
A rare moment of peace. Perhaps a chance to understand each other.

塞梅尔维斯：很整齐的针脚。真没有想到，您的业余爱好是针线活。
Semmelweis: The stitching on this is immaculate. I'm surprised to see you're fond of needlework.

告死鸟：在我的家乡，所有人都会这个。这不稀奇。
Corvus: It's a common skill, nothing special.

生硬的语调，生硬的收尾。话题终结。
Blunt words, blunt endings. The topic dies.

调查员只得继续翻阅手头的文件。无数列车的参数和零件一一略过，调查员看了一会儿，再度寻找到了一个话题的突破口。
The investigator returns to her files, scanning endless logs and numbers until she finds another opening.

塞梅尔维斯：“多瑙黎明”……我一直觉得这个名字很有趣。它的背后有什么寓意吗？
Semmelweis: The name of this train is very intriguing to me. The "Danube Dawn" ... Does it hold any special meaning?

告死鸟：……
Corvus: ...

车厢内一片寂静，只余车轮摩擦在铁轨上单调而冗长的声音。
The carriage hums with the grinding of wheels.

话题再度终结。
Another topic dies.

塞梅尔维斯：抱歉。我似乎忘了，我们之间不是能坐在一起闲聊的友爱关系……
Semmelweis: Sorry. I've never been much good at small talk or knowing when it's appropriate or with whom ...

告死鸟：把多瑙河沿岸的所有地区，联合在一起。
Corvus: To unite all regions along the Danube.

塞梅尔维斯：……？
Semmelweis: ...?

告死鸟：刚才你问我，“多瑙黎明”名字背后的寓意。我现在正在回答你。
Corvus: You asked if it meant something.

列车长停顿了一下，静静地看着调查员的眼睛。
She pauses her work to meet the investigator's eyes.

告死鸟：其实很简单，和它字面的意思一样：把多瑙河沿岸的所有地区联合在一起，然后……
Corvus: It's simple: Unite all regions along the Danube, and ...

告死鸟：一起驶向明天。
Corvus: Move forward into the new day as one.

野树莓：联合在一起？怎么个联合法？
Rubuska: Unite all regions?

另一头，两个女孩并肩靠在柔软的沙发上，感受着身下轮毂行进时带来的震颤。
Elsewhere, two girls lean against one another on a plush sofa, feeling the rhythmic tremor of the wheels beneath them.

艾玛：从伊斯坦布尔一路走到维也纳，中间经过贝尔格莱德、尼卡和布达佩斯……
Aima: From Istanbul to Vienna, through Belgrade, Nika, and Budapest ...

手指在半空中轻盈地划出一条蜿蜒的弧线。
Fingers trace lazy lines through the air.

艾玛：你瞧，是不是正好将多瑙河沿岸的地区都包含在内了？
Aima: See how the train is like a line connecting all the dots along the Danube?

野树莓：联合起来……真讽刺，现在他们正打得不可开交呢。
Rubuska: Huh. Makes the war seem even more ironic.

艾玛：哎呀……我也弄不清楚大人们的事情，太复杂啦。
Aima: Well, I don't really understand all that's going on out there.

艾玛：我只知道我很喜欢这个名字。“多瑙黎明”，听上去很温暖，就像一个大家庭一样。
Aima: But I do know that I like this name. The "Danube Dawn"—it sounds warm and bright, like we're all a big family.

艾玛：其实，刚才你说的那些话我也很赞同！为什么大人不能坐下来，扔掉那些帽子，好好谈谈呢？
Aima: What you said earlier about putting people in boxes—I feel the same way. Why can't they just sit down and have a good chat, like we're doing now?

野树莓雀跃起来。
Rubuska brightens.

野树莓：哈哈，你也同意我的观点是吧！我就知道我们合得来！
Rubuska: I know, right? Haha, I knew we'd get along!

艾玛：当然。我喜欢人类，也喜欢神秘学家，血食怪……
Aima: Of course! I get along with all types. Humans, arcanists, vampires ...

她偷偷看了一眼野树莓。
She makes a sly glance toward Rubuska.

艾玛：你还是我见到的第一个血食怪呢！这种感觉很新奇，我很喜欢你。
Aima: Actually, you're the first vampire I've ever met. It's a little strange and new, but I'm not scared. I like you.

野树莓：嗯哼！我也……不讨厌你。不过我很好奇，像你这样的家伙……你有不喜欢的人吗？
Rubuska: Hah, yeah! You're not so bad yourself. But, is there actually anyone you don't like?

乘务员仰起头，仔细思索了一番。
The stewardess tilts her head back in deep thought.

艾玛：……好像没有。
Aima: Hmm, I can't think of anyone.

野树莓：哼，我就知道。大家都喜欢你，你也喜欢大家。你是个幸福的小公主。
Rubuska: Hmph, knew it. You like everyone, and everyone likes you. Like a happy little princess.

“小公主”点点头，大方接受了新朋友略带酸意的点评。
The "princess" nods, graciously accepting her teasing.

艾玛：我很感激自己能拥有这样的生活，所以我希望你们也一样。
Aima: I'm grateful for the life I'm living, and I hope you are too.

艾玛：大家能和平共处最好啦。
Aima: My only wish is that everyone could live together peacefully.

她轻轻握住野树莓的手。
She clasps Rubuska's hand.

艾玛：就像这样，你看——
Aima: Like this, see—

艾玛：五根手指，原本各自分开，彼此孤单。
Aima: Our fingers are born separate and alone.

艾玛：可一旦握紧，它们就成了一体，再也分不开了。
Aima: But if we lock them together, they become one. Nothing can break them apart.

野树莓：哼，这有什么。只要我想，随时都能挣脱……
Rubuska: Pft, no, they don't. I could break free anytime I want, oh.

她往后缩了一点，艾玛的手却依旧扣在她掌心，温柔而坚定。
The girl recoils slightly, but Aima's grip holds, gentle yet firm.

艾玛：你希望挣脱开吗？小树莓。
Aima: Do you want to break free, Rubi?

野树莓：我……
Rubuska: I …

两人的皮肤都很白，白得几乎透明，手背上青色的血管若隐若现。
Her pale hands are nearly translucent, faint blue veins showing through.

此刻，她们掌心相贴，那些细细的脉络也仿佛悄然缠绕、连接在了一起。
Palm to palm, those threads intertwine, binding them.

野树莓：……
Rubuska: ...

塞梅尔维斯：联合多瑙河沿岸，一起驶向明天？真是意想不到的愿景。
Semmelweis: Unite together and move into a new day as one? That's a truly unimaginable concept.

昔日的创始人们全票通过了这个名字，那时他们的心中没有阴影，眼里盛满光明。
Dream though it was, the spirit of the times brought many who believed it could be real,

他们坚信，多瑙河永不停歇，它将一直流向未来。
wanting to believe the lands along the Danube could live as one.

塞梅尔维斯：真正的理想主义，自然……也很不切实际。
Semmelweis: Idealism does often come hand in hand with impracticality.

塞梅尔维斯：虽然我不理解，但我敬佩他们对信念的执着——至少在说出那些话的时候，他们是真诚而坚定的。
Semmelweis: Still, it's admirable to stand firm in your beliefs. Impractical or not, I respect it.

告死鸟：……
Corvus: ...

意料之外的回应让列车长短暂沉默了一会儿。
Her unexpected approval is met with an equally strange curiosity.

针尖仍旧在柔软的织物中穿梭。列车长的眼神变得温柔而专注。她先用左手将线圈绕过右针的头，再熟练地把线从上方拉回……
Her needles continue their motion. With her left hand, she loops the yarn over the right needle's tip, then deftly draws it back down.

每一次拉紧毛线，织物便更加紧密，在她的指尖下结成坚不可破的堡垒。
Each pull tightens the fabric, fortress walls forming beneath her fingers.

再度开口时，她的声音带上了几分柔和。
When she speaks again, her voice has softened.

告死鸟：对我来说都没有区别，我只负责完成我的本职工作。
Corvus: It's no difference to me. This is only a job.

告死鸟：十三节车厢，一个不少，我会把大家都平安带到安全的地方。
Corvus: Deliver thirteen carriages and our passengers from one point to another safely. That's it.

塞梅尔维斯：十三节，你确定吗？
Semmelweis: Thirteen carriages? Are you sure?

调查员敏锐地捕捉到了这个关键的数字。
The investigator catches the crucial number.

塞梅尔维斯：没有哪趟列车会选用这个倒霉的数字。
Semmelweis: Seems unusual to choose an unlucky number for a train.

针尖停滞了一瞬。
The needle halts.

告死鸟：加上火车头的话……可以是十三。
Corvus: I meant ... including the locomotive.

告死鸟：你不能说火车头不算一节“车厢”。这只是一个简单的定义问题。
Corvus: "Rolling stock," then? I didn't want to be too technical.

塞梅尔维斯：……好吧，那祝你顺利，列车长女士。
Semmelweis: It's fine, really. I suppose I should wish you luck, Conductress.

塞梅尔维斯：毕竟，把大家平安带到安全的地方是我们共同的期望。我说得对吗？
Semmelweis: After all, it is our common goal to have the train arrive safely, yes?

告死鸟：当然。让你在这里自由地查阅资料，这就是我的“照应”。现在……
Corvus: Which is why you've been allowed access here. Now ...

最后一针终于完成，列车长停下了手中的活计。
The last stitch done, Corvus sets her work aside.

现在，一条松软的红色围巾静静地躺在她的膝上。
A soft red scarf now rests in her lap.

塞梅尔维斯：很漂亮。我想艾玛会喜欢的。
Semmelweis: It's a beautiful scarf. I'm sure Aima will appreciate it.

告死鸟：谢谢。
Corvus: Thank you.

笑意一闪而过。
A flicker of a smile.

列车长的视线越过调查员，看向挂钟，确认时间。
Her gaze slips to the clock, checking the time.

告死鸟：你的资料查阅工作有进展了吗？
Corvus: Have you made any progress?

塞梅尔维斯：也不算全无收获。我找到了一批预定乘客的信息，可以用于参考对照，以防部分乘客没有说实话。
Semmelweis: Not much, but I did find something helpful—the ticket reservation log. Could be useful to cross-check against what our passengers said.

列车长点点头。
She nods.

告死鸟：那很好。我们已经在这里待得够久了。
Corvus: Good. We've been here long enough.

告死鸟：走吧，调查员，继续你的职责。我还有其他工作，接下来可能要失陪了。
Corvus: If you'll excuse me, I have a job to do.

塞梅尔维斯：没关系。合作愉快，列车长女士。
Semmelweis: It's been a pleasure working with you, Conductress.

她与列车长一同开门离去。
Together, they rise and step out.

室外风雪吹袭，列车正疾行平静的夜色之中。
A blizzard rages outside, buffeting the train as it speeds into the night.

TMW-08 铁道猫 / The Railway Cat

时间已来到深夜。完成登记的乘客陆续回到各自的车厢，在香软的卧铺中进入沉沉梦乡。
The hour is late and the lamps dim. Passengers return to their compartments one by one, the soft sway of the train soothing them to sleep like a lullaby.

喧嚣散尽，车厢内只剩两名乘客面对面坐着，彼此沉默不语。
Only two passengers remain in the shared space, seated face-to-face in silence.

塞梅尔维斯：……
Semmelweis: ...

空心木：……
Verity: ...

塞梅尔维斯：这位女士，你可以先放下笔。现在是我在做信息登记。
Semmelweis: Madam, would you mind putting down your pen? I need to take your information.

空心木：空心木，英国人，神秘学家。喜欢咖啡、银鳕鱼还有起风的夜晚。
Verity: Verity, British, arcanist. I like coffee, battered cod, and breezy nights.

空心木：讨厌截稿日和下雨天。
Verity: I hate deadlines and rainy days.

空心木：好了，以上就是我能给到你的全部信息。接下来轮到我了……
Verity: There. That's all there is to know about me. Now it's my turn to ask the questions.

撰稿人放下笔，忽然凑了上来。
The editor sets down her pen then leans deep, as if passing along a secret.

空心木：找到了吗？
Verity: Have you found it?

塞梅尔维斯：我不太明白您的意思。
Semmelweis: I don't know what you're talking about.

空心木：哦，看样子是没有。
Verity: Hah. Well, that's a "no," then.

她兴致缺缺地朝调查员摆了摆手。
She waves her hand halfheartedly.

空心木：在你这样一本正经的家伙身上，再有趣的素材恐怕都会变成乏味的档案记录。
Verity: No matter. I'm sure even the most compelling of stories would turn to a dull report when put in your hands.

空心木：再见，祝你工作顺利。
Verity: Goodbye. Best of luck with your work.

调查员干脆地收起笔和文件，然而撰稿人像是忽然想到了什么，再度开口。
Semmelweis closes her pen and files, but the editor, struck by a thought, speaks again.

空心木：不过……看你这么辛苦地忙前忙后，我就投喂你一点儿“小甜点”吧。
Verity: Ah, but since you've been looking so diligently, I suppose I might throw you a bone.

塞梅尔维斯：嗯？
Semmelweis: Yes?

撰稿人凑近身子，诡魅地朝调查员眨了眨眼。
She leans closer still, giving a wink to the investigator.

空心木：听说……之前的乘客总能在夜晚听到哭声。
Verity: Rumor is many passengers aboard this train have heard crying during the night.

塞梅尔维斯：哭声？什么样的哭声？
Semmelweis: Crying? What kind of crying?

空心木：唔……
Verity: Hmm ...

空心木：一开始很轻，后来嘶嘶地、很长很长，像一条线……然后又突然卡住了。
Verity: It starts soft, then turns to a hissing sound, lasting, echoing, and then, all of a sudden, it stops.

她慢慢掐住自己的脖子，朝调查员露出微笑。
She grips her own throat, smiling at the investigator.

空心木：……就像小猫被掐住一样。
Verity: Like a kitten being strangled.

塞梅尔维斯：……
Semmelweis: ...

空心木：怎么样，喜欢我讲的鬼故事吗？
Verity: Well? How did you like my little ghost story?

塞梅尔维斯：哦，还不错。你后面有东西，就悬在半空中……看上去很像那只被掐住的小猫。
Semmelweis: Wait, there's something behind you, hanging in midair. It looks like a strangled kitten.

她面无表情地回击了一个拙劣的玩笑。
Expressionless, Semmelweis shuts down the clumsy joke.

空心木：不，你什么都没看到。
Verity: *chuckle* A good attempt, really. But not nearly enough to work on me.

撰稿人挺直背脊，面带自信的微笑。
The editor straightens but doesn't shed her smile.

空心木：回去忙你的工作吧，“一无所知”小姐。
Verity: Back to your work then, Little Miss Clueless.

登记工作总算告一段落。
The registration is finally done.

调查员略感到疲惫。她踱回自己的座位，翻开来时携带的文件。
Feeling a trace of fatigue, Semmelweis returns to her seat and opens her files to review.

塞梅尔维斯：穿越半岛为数不多的列车之一……
Semmelweis: One of the few trains that travels across the peninsula ...

塞梅尔维斯：来历不明的乘务组成员和闹鬼车厢……
Semmelweis: A crew with as of yet unidentified backgrounds and a haunted carriage ...

塞梅尔维斯：至于乘客……刚才已经登记了一遍，身份都能对上。
Semmelweis: All passengers on the manifest have been registered. No notable discrepancies to be found.

调查员收起文件。
She stows the papers.

一切都无可挑剔地顺理成章，仿佛所有的荒谬都有其存在的理由，但却又隐隐地透露出不对劲。
Everything falls into place too neatly, every absurdity justified, but something is off.

塞梅尔维斯：重塑之手还是没能浮出水面。看来关键还是在于那位列车长……
Semmelweis: And still no sign of the Manus. It seems the key to all this lies with the conductress.

塞梅尔维斯：她到底在隐瞒什么？
Semmelweis: What is she hiding?

塞梅尔维斯：……停车了？
Semmelweis: We're stopping?

乘客Ⅱ：你好，先生……列车怎么忽然停靠了？才刚睡下没多久呢……
Passenger II: Excuse me, sir. Why is the train stopping? I'd just gotten to sleep.

乘务员匆忙穿梭在走廊里，轻言安抚被惊醒的乘客。
The steward hurries through the corridor, calming the roused passengers.

乘务员：各位，很抱歉……列车现在是临时停车。
Train Steward: Apologies for the interruption. I'm afraid the train must come to a temporary stop.

乘务员：由于大雪天气的缘故，铁路暂时无法通行。
Train Steward: The rail ahead is impassable because of the heavy snow.

乘务员：我们正在加紧处理，请各位乘客不要惊慌。
Train Steward: The situation is being dealt with as we speak. Please stay in your rooms and remain calm.

乘务员：现在为诸位提供夜间点心，我们备有莱比锡的云雀蛋糕和东方风情的土耳其软糖，如果您还有其他需要，请随时招手示意我……
Train Steward: The dining carriage will come round to deliver nighttime desserts. We have Leipzig lark cake and Turkish delight. Should you require anything else, please let me know.

塞梅尔维斯：大雪？
Semmelweis: Snow?

调查员悄悄挑开窗帘一角。
She lifts a corner of the curtain.

窗外雪花不时飘飞，吹落在沉默的群山之间。
Snowflakes drift outside, brushed about lazily in the waning storm.

塞梅尔维斯：不错的借口，但这可不足以成为停车的理由。
Semmelweis: Snow indeed, but it hardly seems heavy enough to warrant a stop.

远在列车的另一侧，这场小小的风波并未影响到女孩的好睡眠。
On the other side of the train, the little vampire remains fast asleep.

野树莓：呼……呼……
Rubuska: *gentle breathing*

野树莓四仰八叉地躺在沙发上，呼吸分外均匀。
Rubuska lies sprawled on the sofa, breathing evenly.

她这一天经历了太多起伏，新朋友的倾听与安慰无疑成了她最好的助眠药剂。
The day's turbulence has worn her down. A new friend's comfort was the best lullaby.

艾玛：真奇怪，我还是第一次见到会在夜里睡觉的血食怪……
Aima: How odd. I've never known a vampire to sleep at night.

艾玛：……
Aima: ...

她伸出手，一点点靠近女孩的睡颜。
She reaches out, inching toward the sleeping face.

艾玛：呀！时间到了。
Aima: Oh, it's time.

乘务员摇摇头，整理了一下女孩颊边的碎发。
The stewardess shakes her head, brushing the hair from the girl's cheek.

艾玛：笑得这么开心，一定是在做什么美梦吧。不过……我得暂时离开一会儿。
Aima: Look at the smile on her face. She must be having sweet dreams. It's a shame I have to go.

她站起身，悄悄带上门。
She rises and quietly closes the door.

室外流入的光线被阴影慢慢侵蚀，直至门完全合上，房间陷入一片黑暗。
Light fades into shadow until the room is swallowed in darkness.

艾玛：晚安，小树莓。
Aima: Nighty-night, Rubi.

空气里弥漫着湿木、腐叶、雪和阴谋的气息。女孩在昏暗的树影中穿梭，时隐时现，幽灵般游走于林木之间。
The air reeks of damp wood, rot, snow, and conspiracy. A girl drifts among the trees like a phantom, fading into and then reappearing in the dark.

早早下车的列车长等候在雪地里，捻碎了一片片落在她手心的雪花。
The conductress has been waiting in the snow, crushing flakes in her palm.

告死鸟：你来迟了。遇到意外了吗？
Corvus: You're late. Did something happen?

艾玛：抱歉……我刚把那个血食怪女孩儿哄睡着。
Aima: N-No. S-Sorry, I was just making sure the vampire girl was asleep.

告死鸟：有人知道你下车了吗？
Corvus: Did anyone see you?

静悄悄的森林里，列车无声无息地停靠在铁轨上。
The train, the forest, and the winter winds conspire in gray silence.

雪仍慢慢地下着。
Snow falls calmly but steadily.

艾玛：我走得很小心，没人会发现我的。
Aima: I was careful. No one saw me.

告死鸟：很好，那走吧。
Corvus: Good.

告死鸟：别让他们久等。
Corvus: They're expecting us.

两人一前一后，朝着列车末尾走去，迅速消失在漆黑的雪夜之下。
The two move toward the rear of the train, vanishing into the heavy snow.

雪地上，另一人的脚印远远地跟在后边。
Snow prints follow, another figure trailing them.

塞梅尔维斯：果然……
Semmelweis: Just as I thought.

TMW-09 生人勿近 / Do Not Enter

告死鸟：久等了，各位。
Corvus: Apologies for the wait.

？？？：嘿，伙计们，是咱们的伊格丽卡！
???: Lower your weapons. It's Iglika!

阴影里走出几个年轻人，看清是列车长后，纷纷放下了手中的步枪。
Shadows part, young men emerge. Recognizing the conductress, they lower their rifles.

告死鸟：还是叫我告死鸟吧，我已经习惯这个称呼了。
Corvus: I prefer Corvus. It's more familiar to me.

告死鸟：都是老伙计吗？
Corvus: Are they all our people?

列车长谨慎地挨个看了看在场士兵的面容，确认没有陌生人后，才放下警备。
She checks their faces, easing only when she sees no strangers among them.

“协作者”：跟安排的一样，都是靠得住的人。
Watch Soldier: Yes, no others, just as planned.

“协作者”：鲍里斯安排的人在前面巡逻，没在这儿。
Watch Soldier: Pyrrhos's men are patrolling ahead.

告死鸟：好，我们尽快。
Corvus: Good. Finish this quickly.

告死鸟：临时停车的理由是暴雪封路，车上的人都在等，现在我们应该在“除雪”。
Corvus: The passengers believe we're clearing snow ahead of the train.

告死鸟：鲍里斯那儿也都顺利吗？
Corvus: Is Pyrrhos holding up his end?

“协作者”：没问题，就等列车进站，他会放行你们的。
Watch Soldier: Yes. He'll let you through when the train arrives.

告死鸟：很好，“货”呢？
Corvus: Good. And the "cargo"?

“协作者”：车厢里。
Watch Soldier: In the carriage over there, in the woods.

“协作者”：就在那边的林子里，等我们去把马拽过来。
Watch Soldier: We've got horses to pull it over.

“协作者”：这边走，别让列车上的人发现了……
Watch Soldier: This way. It'll keep you out of sight.

话音落下，几位年轻人便快步跑入铁轨方向的分岔路深处。
At her word, the men hurry down the forked path by the tracks.

“协作者”：嘿，跟上我们！
Watch Soldier: Come on, follow us!

列车长迈开步伐，衣角却被人轻轻拽住。
She steps forward, but her coat hem is tugged.

艾玛：列车长……我……
Aima: Conductress, I ...

告死鸟：……我知道了。
Corvus: Got it.

告死鸟：别担心，我很快回来。
Corvus: Don't worry. I'll be back.

列车长拿出新织好的围巾，笨拙地围在女孩身上，遮住了她大半张脸。
The conductress drapes a newly-made scarf over the girl's shoulders until it has all but buried her face.

艾玛：……
Aima: ...

艾玛：好软……谢谢您，列车长。
Aima: So soft. Thank you, Conductress.

告死鸟：围着它，别冻坏了。
Corvus: I don't want you to catch a chill.

“协作者”：伊格丽卡——
Watch Soldier: Iglika—

列车长拍了拍女孩的肩膀，独自走向阴影深处。
Patting her shoulder, she walks alone into the shadows.

“协作者”：一二——三！
Watch Soldier: One, two, three!

“协作者”：呼……搞定了。这可真是个大家伙！
Watch Soldier: Phew! Done. That was a heavy one.

告死鸟：很好，我们需要再清点一下里面的东西……
Corvus: Alright, time for an inventory check.

塞梅尔维斯：她加挂了一节车厢？
Semmelweis: She's added another carriage?

调查员将自己融入幽暗的树影中，把列车发生的异状都看在眼里。
Semmelweis blends into the dark shadows of the trees, examining the train.

一节新的车厢被秘密挂在了列车长车厢之后，而这一切都发生在“暴雪封路”的掩藏之下。
A new carriage is pulled up and secretly attached behind the rear cabin.

塞梅尔维斯：那些“货”是什么？枪支、弹药，还是管制药品？
Semmelweis: What's it carrying? Guns? Ammunition? Controlled substances?

塞梅尔维斯：还有跟她在一起的军人，不像是塞尔维亚军队……
Semmelweis: And those don't look like Serbian troops.

她又等了一会儿，直到其他人都慢慢离开，雪地里只剩下两人。
She waits until the soldiers disperse, leaving only two behind.

艾玛：……
Aima: ...

乘务员低着头，抓紧了手中柔软的围巾。
Aima lowers her head and clutches her scarf.

下一秒，她忽然跪倒在雪地里。
Then, she suddenly collapses to her knees.

告死鸟：艾玛？
Corvus: Aima?

雪仍然在下着。
The snow falls constantly and heavily.

二人的背影依偎在风雪中，仿佛林木中久久伫立的幽灵。
Their figures lean together in the storm, like ghosts rooted among the trees.

此时此刻，周围的一切都消失得无影无踪，世界只剩下她们。
In that moment, all else melts away. The world is only the two of them.

艾玛：对不起，我……
Aima: I'm sorry, I ...

告死鸟：嘘……我明白，我都明白……
Corvus: Shh-shh. I know. I know.

告死鸟：傻孩子，你不该靠近……
Corvus: Silly girl. Shouldn't have gotten so close.

塞梅尔维斯：她们……难道……
Semmelweis: What are they ... Could it be ...

调查员隐匿在幢幢的树影之中，皱起眉头，极尽眺望。
The investigator, hidden in shadow, frowns as she keens her eyes.

塞梅尔维斯：得再确认一下——
Semmelweis: Need to get confirmation.

？？？：别动。
???: Freeze.

？？？：举起手，背在身后。
???: Hands up where I can see them.

塞梅尔维斯：……
Semmelweis: ...

调查员举起双手。
She raises her hands.

？？？：转过来。
???: Turn around.

两个士兵歪歪扭扭地站在前方，脸色白得几乎透明，像是悬浮在夜空中的两团苍白火焰。
Two soldiers stagger before her, faces ghostly and haggard, like two white flames drifting in the night.

巡逻士兵Ⅱ：很好……别做傻事。
Patrol Soldier II: Good. Don't do anything stupid.

巡逻士兵Ⅱ：刚才你都看到什么了？
Patrol Soldier II: What did you see just now?

塞梅尔维斯：我看到……
Semmelweis: I saw ...

调查员忽然脚尖一勾，将一块石子踢中左侧士兵的膝盖。
She flicks her toe, kicking a stone into one soldier's knee.

巡逻士兵Ⅰ：唔——！！
Patrol Soldier I: Ugh!

士兵发出痛苦的喊叫声，膝盖一弯，重重跪倒在雪地上。
He cries out, buckling to the ground.

调查员迅速俯身，几乎在同一瞬间夺走他手中的枪，枪口毫不犹豫地对准另一个士兵。
She lunges, seizing his weapon in the same instant, turning it on the other.

塞梅尔维斯：现在轮到你们了……
Semmelweis: My turn now.

塞梅尔维斯：举起手，背在身后。
Semmelweis: Hands up where I can see them.

两个年轻的军人卧倒在雪地里，不省人事。
Two young soldiers lie unconscious in the snow.

塞梅尔维斯：这两个士兵看起来不太对劲。动作迟缓、步伐不稳，脸色也很奇怪……
Semmelweis: Something's wrong with these soldiers. Slow movements, unsteady steps, and their faces ... oddly pale ...

塞梅尔维斯：枪里也没有子弹，这可不像是普通的失误。
Semmelweis: Hmm, no bullets in either gun. That can't just be a mistake.

她检查着倒地士兵的状况：没有子弹的枪支、没有刻字的名牌，以及摔落在地的一件令她在意的小玩意儿。
She checks their gear: empty rifles, unmarked tags, and a trinket that draws her eye.

塞梅尔维斯：……！
Semmelweis: ...!

塞梅尔维斯：上次没来得及看清，但从形制大小来看，和列车长递交给那些驻军的东西应该是同一个。
Semmelweis: Same shape and size. This looks to be the item the conductress gave that soldier at the station earlier.

塞梅尔维斯：重塑之手……找了这么长时间，终于浮出水面了。
Semmelweis: Manus Vindictae. Finally, you rear your head.

调查员轻轻摩挲着徽章上熟悉的纹样，拿出口袋里的通讯器，摁下按钮。
She runs her fingers over the familiar symbol, then pulls her communicator from her coat and presses the button.

塞梅尔维斯：塞梅尔维斯，任务编号0073-MV。
Semmelweis: Investigator Semmelweis to Foundation, mission number 0073-MV.

基金会对接员：请讲，调查员。
Foundation Operator: Go ahead, Investigator.

塞梅尔维斯：目前已获取重要线索：贝尔格莱德附近车站的巡逻士兵身上携带了重塑之手的徽章。
Semmelweis: Progress update: I've found a Manus Vindictae insignia on a soldier at a station near Belgrade.

塞梅尔维斯：此外，“多瑙黎明号”列车长行为异常，与当地士兵有可疑交易。她以“暴雪封路”为由，在列车上秘密加挂了一节车厢。
Semmelweis: The conductress of the "Danube Dawn" has undertaken suspicious dealings with these soldiers, stopping the train on the pretext of "the railway being blocked by the snow" in order to secretly add an additional carriage.

塞梅尔维斯：我怀疑列车长已和重塑之手合作。加挂车厢里运送的货物，或许和此次任务目标——血食怪有关。
Semmelweis: I now have reason to believe that the conductress is collaborating with Manus Vindictae. Whatever's in that carriage may be related to our blood-sucking target.

塞梅尔维斯：以及……七十七分队成员已确认失联。
Semmelweis: One more thing: I've lost contact with all members of Squad 77.

基金会对接员：收到，已获悉0073-MV任务进度，将持续追踪七十七分队成员下落。
请继续推进任务，调查员。
Foundation Operator: Mission 0073-MV report received. We will continue our search for Squad 77. Please proceed with your mission, Investigator.

报告完毕，调查员干脆利落地关闭了通讯器。
Report finished, she snaps the device shut.

她望向头顶灰蒙蒙的天空。雪渐渐小了。
She looks up at the dark sky. The storm is easing.

塞梅尔维斯：已经在这里停留了太久。再磨蹭下去，会让某些人起疑心的。
Semmelweis: Been out here a while. Any longer and I might start to raise suspicion.

塞梅尔维斯：该回去了。
Semmelweis: Time to head back.

时间一分一秒流逝。
Time passes slowly.

乘客们陆续从睡梦中醒来，走出各自的卧铺车厢，低声交头接耳。
A few passengers stir awake with the stop; some step out of their cabins, whispering in the darkness.

乘务员：大家不必担心……列车马上就要发车了，不久就将抵达边境检查站！
Train Steward: All passengers, please remain in your rooms. The train is about to depart, and we will reach the border checkpoint soon!

穿行过一节又一节车厢，乘务员尽职尽责地安抚着因停车而有些躁动的乘客们。
The steward moves between cars, calming their unease.

他行至两节车厢间，却发现车门敞开，风掠着雪花吹进来。
Between two cars, he sees one door ajar, wind blowing snow inside.

乘务员：嗯？车门怎么开着？
Train Steward: Hm? Why is the door open?

乘务员：门底下好像有什么痕迹……
Train Steward: Wait a minute, there's something underneath.

生病的乘客：咳……咳咳……
Unwell Passenger: *coughing*

一名乘客倚靠在一旁，接连的咳嗽声拉回了乘务员的注意力。
A passenger leans there, coughing hard, drawing the attention of the steward.

生病的乘客：嗬……请问……我们什么时候能出发？
Unwell Passenger: *cough* Excuse me, when is the train leaving?

乘务员：哦，抱歉！再过五分钟，不……十分钟，列车就能再次启动了。
Train Steward: Oh! Apologies, sir. In about five, no, ten minutes.

生病的乘客：好……
Unwell Passenger: Okay.

他垂下头，不再言语。
He lowers his head with dejection.

待乘务员关上车门离去后，眼珠在他的眼眶转动，嘴唇蠕动着发出喉咙里的一阵怪响。
When the steward leaves, his eyes roll, lips twitching with a guttural rasp.

“咔……咔咔——”
*groan*

沉闷的轰鸣声一阵阵响起，隐去了车内的谈话声、喧闹声以及其他一切不合时宜的声响。
Low rumbles drown voices, shouts, any stray sound in the train.

“多瑙黎明号”满载着乘客，再度于风雪中启动。
The "Danube Dawn" rolls on into the storm, laden with passengers.

TMW-10 墓园里 / Among the Dead

我总是会做同样的梦。梦里的人从不变老，阳光永不消融。
I always have the same dream, a dream where time stands still. People never grow old, and the sunshine never fades.

在梦里，我总能听见母亲的声音。
Because there, I can hear Mама's voice again.

母亲：你的头发已经这么长啦，野树莓。
Mother: My, look how long your hair has grown, Rubuska.

母亲：快坐起来，让我用木梳帮你梳顺……你的头发像我，但小尼古拉的头发像爸爸，总是卷到发根，梳都梳不开……
Mother: Sit up for a moment so I can comb it for you. My hair was just like yours when I was a girl. I do worry when I comb Nikola's, though. His hair's like your father's, all curly at the root.

小野树莓：好嘛，好嘛，妈妈！你一边梳，一边继续给我讲吧……“他们在血色的月光下复生……”
Young Rubuska: Come on, Mама, please keep telling the story! "In the light of the blood moon, they rise ..."

母亲：“他们在血色的月光下复生，永远游走在黑夜的阴影里……”
Mother: "In the light of the blood moon, they rise and stride under the veil of night."

母亲：“他们的世界是自由的，没有死亡，也没有恐惧……”
Mother: "Freely, they live, without fear of death."

母亲：“只需饮下鲜血，他们便将永世长存。”
Mother: "For through blood they live forevermore."

小野树莓：饮下鲜血，永世长存……
Young Rubuska: Through blood they live ...

小野树莓：真不错！那我呢，妈妈，我呢！
Young Rubuska: Amazing! What about me, Mама? What about me?

母亲：你啊……你是我们最最亲爱的野树莓，是家族里最年幼的血食怪之一。
Mother: You, well, you are our dearest Rubuska, one of the youngest vampires in the family.

母亲：春去秋来，你已在沉眠中度过了两百一十四年零四个月两天。
Mother: Seasons changed, years passed, and you've spent 214 years, four months, and two days in a deep, deep sleep.

母亲：如今，绝望的人们正在战火与硝烟中呻吟。为此他们恳请你，睁开血红的双眼，再度回到人间……
Mother: Now, the people suffering from the war cry out, "Rubuska! Awaken! Open up your scarlet eyes and help us!"

小野树莓：呼……嗯？那是……鲜血的味道……
Young Rubuska: Hmm, ah! Is that blood I smell?

小野树莓：很好，血食怪野树莓终于从长长的梦里苏醒了！
Young Rubuska: Now, the great vampire Rubuska has awoken from her endless sleep.

小野树莓：难道有人欺负我的家人？妈妈别怕，我会狠狠地咬住那些坏人，吸他们的血——
Young Rubuska: Does anyone dare hurt my family? Never fear, Mама. Rubuska's here to bite their necks and suck their blood.

母亲：呵呵，傻孩子。
Mother: Hah hah, you silly thing.

母亲：没事的。你忘了吗？身为血食怪的亲族，我们是无惧……
Mother: Have you forgotten? As vampires, we're not afraid of anything. Not even ...

母亲：死亡的……
Mother: ... death ...

母亲：跑！野树莓，快跑——！
Mother: Run, Buska, RUN!

小野树莓：妈妈……不，我不走……
Young Rubuska: Mама! No, no, I, no, no ...

母亲：跑啊——野树莓！
Mother: Buska, RUN!

枪声已经远去，又一个村子在身后燃烧。
I ran and ran, away from the gunshots, away from another burning village.

我逃进了山林，故乡的群山保护了我，然后是墓地。
I ran into the mountains. They protected me—hid my escape. Then I went to the cemetery.

小野树莓：没人追过来，哈啊，哈啊……
Young Rubuska: No, no one's following.

小野树莓：他们找不到我了……哈哈……
Young Rubuska: They can't find me anymore, hahaha.

我找到了一口旧棺材，没人会在乎它，没人会想起它。它就被丢在那里，世界把它遗弃了。
I found an old coffin, cast aside, forgotten, just there, abandoned by the whole world.

我缩在里头，日夜与腐肉、蠕虫和湿润的青苔为伴。
I huddled up inside it, and I lived there. Lived with the worms.

小野树莓：是他们的气味……
Young Rubuska: It smells like them.

小野树莓：是“家人”的气味。
Young Rubuska: Like my "family."

母亲曾说，在这片土地上，逝者不会真正死去。
Mама once said that, in this land, the dead never truly die.

他们的肉体沉入泥土，鲜血渗透进地下，与这片土地的根脉融为一体……
She said that our bodies merged with the earth, our blood seeping into the dirt and nourishing the tangled roots of the trees.

悄悄联结，互相缠绕，永远与世界相联。
And ever so quietly, we'd day by day become one with the world.

于是我不再害怕，也不再挣扎。我安稳地闭上眼，嗅着那股湿气与腐臭，心里却感到很温暖。
So, I wasn't afraid—didn't struggle anymore. I closed my eyes—let the smell wash over me—and a warmth grew in my heart.

小野树莓：爸爸……妈妈……
Young Rubuska: Dad ... Mама ...

此刻，我与他们相依相伴。
We were together again.

相依，相伴……
Together again.

相依，相伴……
Together again, together again.

野树莓：——！
Rubuska: ...!

她从梦中惊醒。
She awakens from a dream.

野树莓：呼……呼……是、是梦……
Rubuska: *panting* J-Just a dream.

野树莓：原来是梦……
Rubuska: *deep breath* Just a dream.

女孩深吸一口气，将郁结的情绪通通咽下肚。
Rubuska takes a deep breath, swallowing her tangled emotions.

环顾四周，车厢内空无一人。
She looks around. The room is empty.

野树莓：已经不记得上次睡安稳觉是什么时候了……
Rubuska: Can't remember the last time I had a good night's sleep.

野树莓：原来已经这个时候了。这样看来……马上就能到边境检查站了！
Rubuska: Huh, I must have slept longer than I thought. Oh, but that means we'll be getting to the checkpoint soon.

野树莓：艾玛也不见踪影……噢！难道说，我已经能离开了吗？
Rubuska: Aima's gone too. Wait. That means I've got a chance to get out of here.

女孩小心翼翼地再次打开门锁，探出头迅速扫视四周，像一只警觉的猫。
She takes no time to pick the lock again, peeking out like a wary cat.

野树莓：很好，外面也没有人！
Rubuska: Yes! No one outside, either.

正欲出门，女孩突然看见了脏污的双手，与身着的漂亮裙子格格不入。
But before she steps out, she notices her dirty hands, a poor contrast with her fine new dress.

它在一路摸爬滚打中沾满了灰尘，女孩想扯下衣袖盖住，却又怕弄脏了洁净的新衣。
Covered in dust from all her scrambling, she tries to pull down her sleeve, then hesitates, afraid to stain the fine fabric.

野树莓：……还是换回原来的衣服吧。
Rubuska: Oh, I'd better change.

野树莓：得把它们都放好……然后……
Rubuska: Just have to put this all back, and ...

洁净的衣裙被整齐叠放在沙发一角。犹豫了一会儿，女孩又在旁边放上了自己的帽子。
Her new clothes are left folded on the sofa. After a pause, she sets her hat beside them.

野树莓：这是我全身上下最贵的东西了……送给你作为礼物吧。
Rubuska: This is the most expensive thing I own. Take it as my gift.

野树莓：再见啦，“小公主”。
Rubuska: Bye-bye, princess.

年幼的血食怪悄悄地行走在车厢之间。
The young vampire slips through the carriages.

乘客们都已熟睡，沉寂的黑夜既让人畅快，却也让人失落。
Most passengers remain asleep. The night is freeing, yet oddly lonely.

野树莓：好安静……
Rubuska: Hmm. Quiet.

野树莓：既然大家都不在，那我只能自己找点乐子咯！
Rubuska: Nobody's around now. Then I can have some fun by myself.

她拿起笛子，用音符为自己作伴。
She lifts her flute, letting notes keep her company.

野树莓：就像以前一样……
Rubuska: Just like the old days.

她轻轻“吹”了一个音符，不惊扰任何沉入梦乡的乘客。
A soft tone escapes, low and sweet.

野树莓：很好……从现在开始，这里是1号车厢。
Rubuska: Right, here I am in carriage one.

野树莓：这里是2号……
Rubuska: Carriage number two.

一个音符落下，又一个音符升起。
One note falls, another rises.

女孩轻盈地穿梭在车厢内，像一阵灵动的风。
She drifts lightly through the carriage like a passing breeze.

野树莓：这是11号……
Rubuska: Eleven ...

野树莓：嗯……？
Rubuska: Huh?

野树莓：算上守车和休息室的话，总共应该是12节车厢不是吗？
Rubuska: Shouldn't there be twelve carriages? Ten for passengers, plus the brake van and the staff compartment. Yeah.

野树莓：这里什么时候……多了一节车厢？
Rubuska: Then how did this extra carriage get here?

风雪吹开，未曾见过的车厢在黑暗中随列车颠簸。
A new carriage, one she's never seen before, rattles in the dark.

车厢连着车厢，似乎永远没有尽头。
But the train stretches long, and in the night it almost feels endless.

空心木：不错，吹得很深情。我几乎都要为那支沉默的木笛鼓掌了。
Verity: Hmm. What a pretty song. I could almost applaud.

声音冷不丁从角落的阴影中传出。
A voice cuts coldly from the shadows.

野树莓：咦，是之前见过的……
Rubuska: Oh, you're that lady from before.

野树莓：我在数车厢一共有多少节。这是计数用的。
Rubuska: I'm counting how many carriages there are. This helps me with it.

空心木：很有趣。这是你家乡的游戏吗？
Verity: An interesting little game. From your hometown, I presume?

女孩摇了摇头。
She shakes her head.

野树莓：是我自己发明的。
Rubuska: No, I came up with it myself.

野树莓：我的家乡……很大，大得漫无边际，就像海一样。
Rubuska: My hometown's big, you see—so big you couldn't even imagine it.

翻过一座山，后面又是一座山。走过一条河，眼前还横着另一条河。
Climb one mountain, and another rises. Cross one river, and another follows.

天空绵延着无边无际的灰色，路远得仿佛没有尽头。
The sky stretches endless and gray, a road without end.

野树莓：不过，我有妈妈留给我的笛子。
Rubuska: Lucky for me, my mother gave me this kaval.

野树莓：我给所有的大山、小河都放上一个独属于它们的音符，这样一来……
Rubuska: So, I used it to name every mountain and river by giving them each their own note.

她握紧手中的笛子。
She grips her flute with pride.

野树莓：我就不会再迷路了！
Rubuska: And now I never get lost!

空心木：你确定吗？
Verity: Are you certain?

撰稿人从沙沙的记录声中抬起头，目光中透露出一丝兴致。
The editor looks up from her scratchy notes, her eyes alight with interest.

空心木：听说这里的列车可是会“增殖”的，哪怕你吹出一整首巴赫B小调复调回旋曲也没用。
Verity: I've heard the carriages on this train can multiply. Even if you played the entirety of Bach's Mass in B Minor, you'd never count them all.

空心木：不信的话，你可以继续往前走。
Verity: Go ahead if you don't believe me. You'll see soon enough.

她露出笑容。
Verity offers a wistful smile.

野树莓：我……？
Rubuska: Oh. What?

女孩看向前方。
She looks down the corridor.

车厢随列车行进的节奏慵懒地左右晃动着，向她发出无声的邀约。
The carriage sways lazily, as if beckoning her forward.

月光倾泻而下，仿佛为它披上了一层苍白而冰冷的裹尸布，将一切秘密掩埋其中。
Moonlight peeks through the clouds, pale and cold, shrouding the scene like a white burial sheet, hiding all secrets beneath it.

他们看见了那节本不该存在的车厢，无数血红的眼睛在尽头的黑暗中交替明灭。
And there, in a carriage that never was, in that place that shouldn't even have existed, blood-red eyes blinked in the darkness.

鲜血遍地流淌，沉睡于黑夜中的怪物们悄然苏醒，静静吞咽那甘甜的热血。
And the blood of those sorry passengers trickled, sweet and warm, into the throats of the red-eyed monsters.

野树莓：……
Rubuska: ...

野树莓：呃……姐姐，我觉得咱俩最好结个伴……
Rubuska: Uh, ma'am, I think we'd better stick together.

她害怕地退后一步，回过身，却发现背后早已空无一人。
She steps back in fear, turning to find nothing there.

只剩下老旧的木门独自晃悠，吱呀——吱呀——
Just an old iron door, swaying by itself, its hinges groaning, creak ... creak ...

野树莓：姐姐……？
Rubuska: Ma'am?

野树莓：……
Rubuska: ...

女孩不得不独自面对眼前的黑暗。
The girl has no choice but to face the darkness before her.

野树莓：我、我可是血食怪野树莓！血食怪什么都不会怕的……
Rubuska: C-Come on now. You're Rubuska! The blood-sucking vampire! You're not scared of ... *tremble* ... anything.

女孩深吸一口气，轻轻一跃便跳了过去。
She takes a deep breath and takes a brave leap.

沉重的铜锁扣住了车厢前门，在月光下闪着冰冷的微光。
A heavy copper lock clamps the front door of the carriage, glinting coldly under the moonlight.

野树莓：怎么又锁住了……
Rubuska: Oh. Locked again?

野树莓：好，那我就再开一次！
Rubuska: Fine, then I'll just unlock this one too.

野树莓：开了……！
Rubuska: Open sesame!

只要向前一推，便能进入车厢。
Just one push, and she could slip inside.

野树莓停下了动作。她屏住呼吸，贴近车门，听见里面正隐隐传来呻吟与哭声。
Rubuska freezes. Holding her breath, she presses against the door, catching faint sounds from within.

“在夜里醒来的乘客们，先是听见哭声，然后听见哀嚎。”
"On one such night, a group of passengers awoke to the sound of crying. They followed it. Then the crying turned to bawling, and the bawling to wailing, until they reached it—"

“而当他们朝声音的来源寻觅而去时……”
"A door that wasn't there before."

女孩心中没来由升起一丝恐惧。她转过身去想要离开，然而疾风刮过，车厢门被猛地推开。
Fear creeps over her. She turns to leave when a sharp gust throws the door wide open.

野树莓：……！
Rubuska: ...!

车门那老旧的呻吟声足以唤醒任何沉睡的古老存在。
The ancient groan of the door could wake anyone—or anything—long asleep.

她极慢、极缓地抬起头，直视眼前的黑暗——
Slowly, she lifts her head to face the darkness.

野树莓：啊啊……！
Rubuska: Ahh!

一双双眼睛自黑暗中现出，仿佛黑夜中群聚的苍白鬼火。
Eyes flicker in the dark, like ghostly flames gathering in the night.

野树莓：唔——！！
Rubuska: Ugh, ahh! Mmff.

还未来得及发出尖叫，下一秒，女孩被捂住嘴，拖入深不见底的黑暗。
Before she can scream, a hand clamps her mouth, dragging her into the eclipsing shadows.

TMW-11 十三号车厢 / Carriage No. 13

野树莓：唔唔——放开姆！
Rubuska: *muffled* Mmff. Get off me!

沉重的声音：很好，我摁住她了！大蒜准备好了吗？木桩和盐呢？
Deep Voice: Alright, she's down! Bring the garlic, stake, and salt!

数只沉重的大手死死捂住野树莓的脸，鼻尖传来煤炭的烟熏味，混合着大蒜与泥土的臭气，令人几欲晕厥。
Heavy hands cover her face, coal smoke, garlic, and earth choking her breath until she nearly faints.

野树莓：好臭……姆咬！
Rubuska: Ugh! What're you ... *chomp*

着急的声音：当心，雅科夫！别真被她咬了！
Urgent Voice: Careful, Yakov! Don't let her bite you!

手终于松开了，女孩一骨碌从地上爬起。
Finally, the grip loosens. She scrambles to her feet.

视线逐渐适应了眼前的黑暗。
Her eyes adjust to the dark.

没有血食怪，也没蝙蝠与无尽的长廊，这只是一节寻常的、昏暗而破旧的车厢。
No vampires, no bats, no endless corridors, just an ordinary, if grim, old carriage.

数十个脏兮兮的“乘客”挤在一起。他们衣衫破旧，神色紧张，几乎人人都全副武装：铁棍、锅铲，甚至还有大蒜和盐……
Dozens of filthy "passengers" crowd together, ragged and tense, clutching makeshift weapons: iron rods, pans, even garlic and salt.

雅科夫：原来是个孩子。你……是血食怪吗？
Yakov: Wait, it's just a kid. You're not a vampire, are you, young lady?

野树莓：我可是穿刺公德古拉的末代后裔，当然是血统纯正的血食怪！
Rubuska: Course I am! You're looking at the heir of Dracula the Impaler himself!

乘客们又纷纷举起手中放下的“武器”。
They raise their "weapons" once more.

野树莓：等一下！咳咳，你们应该感到庆幸，本血食怪现在还不算太饿……
Rubuska: Whoa, whoa, whoa! Let's not be too hasty. This vampire's already got a full belly.

野树莓：暂时。
Rubuska: For now.

雅科夫：既然不是来“觅食”的，为什么要撬开车门？你想要什么？
Yakov: Then tell us why you broke in here. And don't go telling lies.

野树莓：我……
Rubuska: I …

女孩心虚地试图后退半步，却被冰冷的铁门堵住了退路。
Rubuska tries to step back, but the cold iron door blocks her retreat.

“偷渡”的乘客：算了，雅科夫。她看起来没有恶意。
Stowaway Passenger: Cut her some slack, Yakov. I don't think she meant any harm.

附近忽然传来女人的劝告声。
A woman's voice calls out, gentle but firm.

雅科夫：哼。你总在关键时刻心软，拉伊哈。
Yakov: Hmph. Reyhan, every time we try to act tough, you go soft on us.

拉伊哈：别忘了我们现在的处境。真闹出动静，咱们一个都跑不了。
Reyhan: Maybe so, but what other option do we have? If anyone hears us and comes looking, we're done for.

野树莓：没、没错！我马上就走。放心，我什么也没看到……
Rubuska: Sh-She's right. Let me go, and I won't say a word. I-I didn't see a thing, promise.

？？？：唔……咳咳……
???: Ugh ... *cough*

一声微弱的呻吟自女人怀中传来。野树莓下意识放缓了离开的动作。
A child whimpers in her arms, and Rubuska hesitates.

女人将孩子抱得更紧了一些，轻声安抚。
The woman hugs him closer, soothing him.

拉伊哈：别害怕，小伊凡。我们都看着她呢。
Reyhan: It's alright, Ivanushka. No need to be afraid. We've got our eyes on her.

小伊凡：我不怕血食怪，姐姐。她看上去一点儿也不吓人，不像那些炮弹……
Ivanushka: I'm not afraid. She isn't half as scary as those whizz-bangs.

男孩乖巧地靠在女人身边，左边的袖管空荡荡的，随列车的行进轻轻晃动。
The boy leans against the woman, one sleeve hanging empty.

小伊凡：姐姐……我们会平安抵达布达佩斯吗？
Ivanushka: How much longer will we be stuck here, Rey? Will we really go to Budapest?

拉伊哈低下头，温柔地摸了摸他毛茸茸的头发。
Reyhan lowers her head, stroking his hair softly.

拉伊哈：会的，我的小天使。
Reyhan: Of course we will, little guy.

野树莓：原来你们也是……
Rubuska: Budapest? Then, you're also …

无需多言，眼前的景象早已说尽了一切。
No words are needed. The scene says it all.

那是太过熟悉的气息，也是她不断试图逃离的、总是如影随形的噩梦——
That scent, too familiar. The nightmare returns, always chasing her ...

小野树莓：小尼古拉，快醒醒……
Young Rubuska: Kolyo *sniffle* Kolyo, don't fall asleep, okay?

枪声仍未远去，又一个村子在她身后燃烧。女孩将亲人揽在怀里，不忍看他血肉模糊的躯干。
Gunfire still echoes. A village burns behind her. She clutches her brother, unable to look back at the ruins.

小尼古拉：姐姐……我，好像感觉不到自己的腿了……
Kolyo: Buska, I can't feel my legs.

小野树莓：这只是暂时的。听着，你会没事的……有我在……
Young Rubuska: They're just a bit numb. It'll pass. You'll be fine. *sniff* I'll get us out of here.

火光划破天幕，又一枚炮弹在他们头顶爆炸。
Flames tear across the sky. A shell bursts overhead.

小野树莓：——！！
Young Rubuska: ...!

小尼古拉：我……我知道，他们把我的腿偷走了……
Kolyo: I think my legs are gone.

小尼古拉：姐姐……我好痛，我……好冷……
Kolyo: It-It hurts, Buska. It-It hurts so bad. I can't—

小野树莓：你会好起来的……别怕，小尼古拉。一切都会好的。
Young Rubuska: Oh. You'll be fine, Kolyo, alright? Your big sister's here. You're safe.

小野树莓：就像大人们说过的，明天会更好……
Young Rubuska: You'll feel better tomorrow. You'll be better.

野树莓：……
Rubuska: ...

小伊凡：血食怪姐姐，你的眼睛好像变得更红了，像小兔子一样。
Ivanushka: Um, Ms. Vampire, what happened to your eyes? They've gone all red and watery, like a white rabbit's.

野树莓：呃……血食怪回想起开心的事情，眼睛就会像这样……
Rubuska: Huh? Oh, it's nothing. Happens every time I think of a happy memory. It's a vampire thing.

野树莓：嗯？
Rubuska: Hm?

靠近车门的双耳捕捉到了一丝微妙的动静。
She hears a faint sound by the door.

一步、两步……那是由远及近的、安静而耐心的脚步声。
Step by step, quiet and patient.

雅科夫：发生什么了吗？
Yakov: What is it?

野树莓：嘘，嘘……
Rubuska: Shh!

野树莓：好像有人来了。
Rubuska: Someone's coming.

女孩摆摆手，示意大伙儿安静下来，随即侧耳贴上车厢门。
Rubuska signals the others to hush then presses her ear to the door.

野树莓：什么都没听见……难道我搞错了？
Rubuska: Strange, I don't hear anything now. Was it just my imagination?

她低下头，见到门缝中隐约透入一抹昏黄的光晕。
She lowers her head and sees a dim yellow glow seeping through the crack.

一个黑影恰巧挡在光晕中间的位置，随列车的摆动一齐轻轻晃荡着。
A shadow blocks the light, swaying with the train.

野树莓：——！！
Rubuska: ...!

她下意识想要后退，转身却撞上了一双无助的眼睛。
She turns in panic but meets the gaze of a helpless boy.

小伊凡：又有人要来抓走我们了吗……？
Ivanushka: Are the bad men coming for us again?

小伊凡：我不想……
Ivanushka: I don't want to go with them.

男孩无助地望向女孩。他的眼睛很蓝，像是晴空的颜色。
His blue eyes look almost clear in the darkness.

曾经在枪声中，有另一个男孩也用这样的眼神望着她。
Once before, in a world of ash and gunfire, another boy had looked at her the same way.

野树莓：小尼古拉……
Rubuska: Kolyo …

她深吸一口气，许下庄重的诺言。
She draws a deep breath, making a solemn vow.

野树莓：别害怕，我可是强大的血食怪……不会有问题的。
Rubuska: … You're not going anywhere. I swear it on my honor as a vampire.

野树莓：交给我吧，我会同你们一起，我们一起去布达佩斯。
Rubuska: Just leave it to me. I'll get you all to Budapest, safe and sound.

女孩坚定地回过头去，面对着车厢门。
Turning back, she faces the door.

野树莓：嘘……
Rubuska: Now, keep quiet.

所有人屏息而待。
They hold their breath.

数十道目光交织起一张无形的大网，牢牢支撑起女孩脆弱的脊背，也阻绝了她全部的后路。
Dozens of eyes weave a net around her, holding her spine steady, sealing every path of retreat.

野树莓：不管你是谁……
Rubuska: Whoever you are …

她颤抖着张开双臂，外套随之扬起，在夜色中鼓荡开来，如同蝙蝠张开巨大的双翼。
She spreads her arms, coat flaring wide, like a bat unfurling its wings in the night.

野树莓：来吧……哈！我可不会让你伤害大伙儿！
Rubuska: Sh-Show yourself! But don't think I'll let you touch a hair on their heads!

一场毫无悬念的战斗，然而战败者却并不轻言放弃。
An effortless battle, yet the defeated refuses to yield.

？？？：唔！快放手……
???: Oh! That's quite enough!

？？？：我警告你——不许动嘴咬人，野树莓。
???: I'm warning you—no fangs on the train, Rubuska.

野树莓：欸？怎么是你？
Rubuska: Huh? What are you doing here?

听见熟悉的声音喊出自己的名字，女孩愣愣地松开双手。
Hearing her name called in that familiar voice, the girl slackens her grip.

塞梅尔维斯：这话应该我来问。
Semmelweis: Funny, I had intended to ask you the same thing.

明黄的光柱滑过一张张疲惫而困顿的面容。
The yellow beam falls across weary, half-wild faces.

没有人吱声。眼前这位身手不凡的调查员显然吓坏了不少乘客。
No one speaks. Her speed and skill intimidating the onlookers.

塞梅尔维斯：没有七十七分队的人，也不像重塑之手的……原来这就是她说的“货”吗？
Semmelweis: No sign of Squad 77, and these people don't look like Manus, either. Could they be the "cargo" she was talking about?

塞梅尔维斯：普通的难民？
Semmelweis: Are they civilians?

调查员思索了一瞬，再度开口。
She pauses for a moment, then speaks again.

塞梅尔维斯：是列车长放你们上来的吗？别急着否认，我看到他们加挂了车厢。
Semmelweis: Who brought you on board? The conductress? Think before you answer. I know more than you think.

塞梅尔维斯：你们的目的是什么？
Semmelweis: Why are you on this train?

……
...

车厢内一片沉默，人们的目光警惕而不安。调查员知道，她必须亮出更加诚恳的态度，才能打破这堵无形的墙。
Silence. Eyes filled with unease and suspicion fix on her. She knows only sincerity will break through the wall between them.

塞梅尔维斯：我不是边境巡逻，也不是铁路稽察。
Semmelweis: Just listen please, I don't work for the border patrol, the army, nor the railway.

塞梅尔维斯：如果你们只是为了逃离战争、饥荒或者疾病，那我完全理解——这只是一种求生的本能，任何人在这样的境况下都会作出类似的抉择。
Semmelweis: If it's war, famine, or death you're running from, well, who could blame you? In times like these, anyone would do the same.

塞梅尔维斯：我来这里，是为了找一个……血食怪。如果你们与它无关，那我们之间就没有任何问题。
Semmelweis: My business here is with a vampire. If you don't have anything to do with one, then your purpose here is of no concern to me.

乘客们：血食怪？
Stowaways: A vampire?

人们不约而同看向野树莓。
All at once, they turn to Rubuska.

野树莓：呃？
Rubuska: Huh?

野树莓：所以……塞梅尔维斯小姐，你真是来找我的？
Rubuska: Could she mean me? Did you come here looking for me?

塞梅尔维斯：是除她以外的另一个血食怪。一开始我还以为它就在这节车厢里，现在看来，我的调查方向似乎出现了一些偏差。
Semmelweis: I can see what you're all thinking, but it's not her. I thought perhaps it could be hiding in this carriage, but it appears I was wrong.

野树莓：哦……
Rubuska: Oh ...

女孩点点头，说不出是庆幸抑或失落。
She nods, unsure whether in relief or regret.

“偷渡”的乘客Ⅰ：看样子那些传说果然都是真的，幸好我们提前备好了“武器”！
Stowaway I: So the stories are true. Good thing we came prepared!

“偷渡”的乘客Ⅱ：血食怪……它会找到我们吗？
Stowaway II: That vampire … It won't find us, will it?

人们担忧地交头接耳起来。忧虑与不安在车厢内进一步扩散。
Worried murmurs ripple through the carriage.

塞梅尔维斯：我可以为你们提供帮助，但在此之前，我需要先了解你们。信任是相互的，不是吗？
Semmelweis: Look, I'm willing to help you, but only if you give me some information about yourselves. After all, trust is a two-way street, right?

雅科夫：……我明白了。
Yakov: I understand.

雅科夫环视车内一张张憔悴的面容，低声叹了一口气。
Yakov surveys the faces, sighing under his breath.

雅科夫：我们都是从各个地方逃难来的。有人提供了渠道，我们接受，仅此而已。
Yakov: We're refugees; we come from all over. Someone offered us a way out, and we took it. It's nothing more than that.

雅科夫：给的指示也很简单：就在贝尔格莱德车站前面不远，有趟列车会停下来。
Yakov: We were told to wait near Belgrade station until a train stopped.

雅科夫：然后，有人会把我们挂上列车，之后只要别闹出动静，我们就能平安出境。
Yakov: They said someone would attach this carriage to the rear, and as long as we kept our heads down and stayed quiet, we could make it across the border.

雅科夫：至于那个列车长……我们交流不多。她只说出境后有人会接应我们，带我们去治疗，然后在布达佩斯开启新生活。
Yakov: As for the conductress ... She didn't speak much. She said there'd be people on the other side, people who'd feed us, give us medicine, help us start a new life in Budapest.

雅科夫：就这么简单。
Yakov: That's the whole of it.

塞梅尔维斯：带人偷渡可是重罪，要是被当局发现……她有向你们提任何条件吗？
Semmelweis: She's taking a huge risk for you. Smuggling you across the border could put her behind bars. She asked for a fair price, I assume?

乘客们摇了摇头。
The passengers shake their heads.

拉伊哈：只叫我们管住嘴，别让不相干的人知道了。
Reyhan: No, nothing. Only that we keep quiet and never speak a word about it to anyone who doesn't need to know.

野树莓：哇……听上去简直就是做好事不留名的大英雄。
Rubuska: Whoa ... I never would've figured her for something like that.

塞梅尔维斯：……
Semmelweis: ...

塞梅尔维斯：（可她身上带着重塑之手的徽章，甚至把它交给了那些士兵。）
Semmelweis: But that Manus insignia ... How did she get it? And why did she give it to those soldiers?

塞梅尔维斯：（还有那些失踪的调查员……）
Semmelweis: And I can't forget that the rest of my squad has vanished without a trace.

调查员望向窗外。雪还在下，没有要停的意思。
Semmelweis takes a glance outside—an unyielding screen of white snow.

她拿出怀表，确认了一下时间。
She checks her watch.

塞梅尔维斯：根据行进的时间来看，我们应该快抵达检查站了。
Semmelweis: We'll be reaching the checkpoint any minute now.

离终点越近，意味着留给她的时间便越少。
Their time is short.

似乎是为了回应调查员的精准推算，话音刚落，列车果真缓缓停了下来。
As if to confirm her calculation, the train begins to slow.

雅科夫：车停了？
Yakov: We're stopping again. What's going on?

雅科夫凑近车门，从缝隙中小心翼翼地看向外面。不一会儿，他的眼睛忽然亮了起来。
Yakov presses close to the door, peeking through the crack. His eyes suddenly brighten.

雅科夫：果然……是边境检查站！
Yakov: You're right. It's the border checkpoint!

雅科夫：好消息，朋友们——我们明早就能出境了！
Yakov: Good news, folks—by tomorrow, we'll be out of the country!

TMW-12 凉水泉 / Kreynero

列车缓缓驶入检查站。
The train glides into a soft brake at the checkpoint.

蒸汽机停止运转，庞大的钢铁巨兽仿佛入睡一般，静静停靠在铁轨上。
The steel beast breathes out a final belch of dark smoke before it stops.

边防士兵Ⅰ：“多瑙黎明号”……
Border Checkpoint Soldier I: The "Danube Dawn" ...

边防士兵Ⅰ：维也纳-潘诺尼亚运输公司所有，登记车厢……十二节。
Border Checkpoint Soldier I: Operated by Vienna-Pannonian Railways, 12 carriages.

边防士兵Ⅰ：于一九一二年十一月三十日抵达尼卡边境检查站。
Border Checkpoint Soldier I: Date of arrival: November 30th, 1912. Location: Nika Border Checkpoint.

边防士兵Ⅰ：登记成员，二百……五十……五十……
Border Checkpoint Soldier I: Persons on board ... 250 ... 50 ...

声音弱了下来，反复打着转，仿佛被困在了数字的囚笼里。
The sound grows faint, looping over and over, as if trapped in a prison of numbers.

告死鸟：先生？
Corvus: Sir?

列车长靠近一步。士兵的面容在月光下显得格外苍白，像是刚从一场漫长的病痛中康复。
The conductress steps forward. The soldier's face, pale as moonlight, looks freshly recovered from a long illness.

边防士兵Ⅰ：噢……！我们会尽快查验放行。
Border Checkpoint Soldier I: Oh, er, just the usual checks. We'll have you on your way shortly.

边防士兵Ⅰ：尼卡检查站向您致敬，列车长。
Border Checkpoint Soldier I: Welcome to Nika checkpoint, Conductress.

告死鸟：鲍里斯呢？我需要见见你们的长官。
Corvus: Pyrrhos, your chief officer—where is he? I need to see him.

边防士兵Ⅰ：长官……他……
Border Checkpoint Soldier I: Ma'am, he ...

眼神游移不定地飘了一会儿，才终于找到聚焦点。
His eyes drift before finally finding focus.

边防士兵Ⅰ：他说您知道该上哪儿找他。
Border Checkpoint Soldier I: He's expecting you. Said you'd know where to find him.

鲍里斯：伊格丽卡！艾玛！终于等到你们了！
Pyrrhos: Iglika! Aima! What a joy to see you both again!

鲍里斯：一路上怎么样？都顺利吗？
Pyrrhos: How's the trip treating you? All going well?

军官快步上前，脸上带着一贯和煦的微笑。
An officer strides in, smile warm and practiced.

告死鸟：和过去一样。
Corvus: Just the usual.

鲍里斯：一样就好……过来，艾玛。
Pyrrhos: Ah, well, there's nothing wrong with that. Aima, come.

鲍里斯：有个难民送的，拿着。
Pyrrhos: Here. A refugee gave it to me.

艾玛：谢谢鲍里斯叔叔……这下我可以集齐全部五个娃娃了！
Aima: Oh, Uncle Pyrrhos. Now I have all five of them. Thank you ever so much!

鲍里斯：没错。再让你的伊格丽卡阿姨给它做身漂亮衣服，一家人和和美美的……
Pyrrhos: That's quite alright, my dear. Now, you be a good girl for Aunt Iglika, and maybe she'll sew you a dress for it, then you can line them all up, like one big family.

艾玛轻轻摩挲着木质的娃娃。鲍里斯看着她，神情疲惫而温和。
Aima strokes the wooden doll gently. Pyrrhos watches, his expression tired but kind.

告死鸟：你看上去很累。发生什么事了吗？
Corvus: You look exhausted. Has there been trouble?

鲍里斯：当然。每天光是应付那些边境稽查的人，就足以叫我一睡不醒了。
Pyrrhos: Do I? Perhaps I am a little worse for wear. Dealing with border patrol is always a pain. You know how it is.

他一边说着，眼角的余光不动声色地掠过乘务员。
He continues speaking, while his eyes flick subtly toward the stewardess.

艾玛：哦……我还得去擦洗一下车窗，你们请继续……
Aima: Oh, yes. I just remembered I still have to clean the windows on the dining car. Thank you again, Uncle Pyrrhos.

艾玛会意地收起新玩具，转身离开。
Aima pockets the toy with understanding, then turns to leave.

车门关闭，军官脸上的笑容顷刻消失。
The door shuts, and the officer's smile turns sour.

鲍里斯：有人……不，是一帮人，在查这趟车。
Pyrrhos: There are eyes on us, and not just some casual suspicion. I believe they may be professionals.

鲍里斯：我刚刚收到通知，巡逻队有两个士兵被人打晕了。没惊动警戒，像是经过训练的。
Pyrrhos: I just received word that two of my men were knocked out while on patrol—somehow without alerting anyone. Whoever did it was well trained.

鲍里斯：换句话说……
Pyrrhos: All that is to say ...

鲍里斯：我们被盯上啦，老队友。
Pyrrhos: Someone's sniffing us out, my friend.

告死鸟：……
Corvus: ...

告死鸟：回忆
塞梅尔维斯：渐入

塞梅尔维斯：为了确保大家的安全，我需要对所有登车乘客的身份进行一次普查登记。
Semmelweis: To rule out any threat, I need to verify every passenger on board, carriage by carriage.

塞梅尔维斯：从程序上讲，截停列车是基于条约的一项标准操作，完全合乎规定……
Semmelweis: I am fully within my authority to stop this train at any time to conduct an investigation.

塞梅尔维斯：消回忆
鲍里斯：渐出

鲍里斯：怎么了？
Pyrrhos: What's wrong?

鲍里斯：我们认识这么多年了，你这副表情——你知道些什么，对吗？
Pyrrhos: I know that look. You know who's behind this, don't you?

告死鸟：我会处理好的。
Corvus: I'll handle it.

鲍里斯：圣洛夫基金会，听说过吗？
Pyrrhos: The St. Pavlov Foundation—you heard of them?

军官开门见山。
He wastes no time.

告死鸟：……
Corvus: ...

鲍里斯：看来你见过他们的人了。让我猜猜……现在就在你的车上，对吗？
Pyrrhos: Oh, Iglika. *tut* You've met them already, haven't you? They're on your train as we speak.

鲍里斯：不然我们的人怎么会在森林里倒下。那地方方圆十英里连只兔子都没有，只可能是从你车上下来的人。
Pyrrhos: How else could my men have been ambushed in such an isolated location? You're harboring a snake, my friend, whether you know it or not.

告死鸟：她的目的并非列车本身，你不用担心我车上的人。我说过了——我会处理好一切。
Corvus: She's not after the cargo. As for the assault, I will handle it.

告死鸟：在这个关键节点，我不希望任何事情影响“多瑙黎明号”顺利到达布达佩斯。
Corvus: I won't allow anything to jeopardize the mission. This train must reach Budapest.

列车长摆摆手，示意话题到此终结。
She dismisses his concern with a sharp wave.

鲍里斯：……真叫人怀念啊。
Pyrrhos: *chuckle* Ah, makes me miss it.

鲍里斯：当初你也是像这样，力排众议让我留在了组织里。
Pyrrhos: I'll never forget the day you stood up for me. It's thanks to you that they even allowed me to stay with the guerrilla unit.

军官眯起眼，思绪仿佛又回到了那个遥远的夏天。
The officer narrows his eyes, mind slipping back to a faraway summer.

鲍里斯：那时我们的想法很简单。为了联合……为了建设一个统一的“色雷斯解放阵线”。
Pyrrhos: Things were simpler back then. All we cared about was the cause, about unity, and the Thracian Liberation Front.

鲍里斯：无视血统，无视种族，所有人都一样，我们都在同一个大家庭里。
Pyrrhos: Fighting for a world where, regardless of race or bloodline, we'd all live as one great family.

鲍里斯：白天，我们在山林中穿行，翻越雪线，炸毁敌人的补给线，把那些骑兵吓得连马粪都不敢留在原地。
Pyrrhos: We crossed forests, trudged through the snow over the mountains, and turned the enemy's supply lines to dust, heh. We scared those cavalrymen half to death.

鲍里斯：晚上，我们围着篝火，一起修枪，烤面包，唱那些老掉牙的游击战歌，像一家人那样。
Pyrrhos: And when night fell, we'd gather around the fire, break bread, clean our sights, and sing those songs of war and liberation, like brothers and sisters. You remember, don't you, Iglika?

告死鸟：……那确实是一段美好的生活。
Corvus: It was a good life.

鲍里斯：可惜，不是人人都这么想。背叛、流血，兄弟反目……这些我们都一同经历了。
Pyrrhos: What a shame that not everyone shared our vision. Betrayal, bloodshed, comrades parting ways ... We went through all of it together.

鲍里斯：后来我们先后离开。这么多年过去了……
Pyrrhos: In the end, even we chose to walk away. And now, after all these years ...

鲍里斯：现在，我只想将“多瑙黎明号”当成第二个解放阵线来奋斗。
Pyrrhos: I have a second chance to fight for what we believe in—the "Danube Dawn."

军官的声音很轻。他靠在窗边，沉默地望向漫天飞舞的白雪。
His voice softens as he leans against the window.

每当他侧过头，额角那块暗红的伤疤便毫无保留地展示在世人眼前，仿佛被烧灼的藤蔓。
As he turns, the scar at his temple shows raw and red, like burnt vines.

鲍里斯：我一直认为我们彼此是能互相理解的。
Pyrrhos: I've always felt we were kindred minds, you and I.

鲍里斯：因此，我可以相信你，不过问基金会的事——
Pyrrhos: I trusted you then, and I trust you now. I won't take any action against the Foundation—

他停顿了一瞬。
He pauses.

鲍里斯：但有两个条件。
Pyrrhos: On two conditions.

鲍里斯：第一，列车今晚先停靠在这里，明天一早发车。
Pyrrhos: First, the train mustn't leave until morning.

鲍里斯：我们需要一定的时间来行使“流程”，为巡逻队的事给上面一个交代。
Pyrrhos: We need it here long enough to go through some procedures and put together a justifiable account of the assault.

告死鸟：“流程”？你是指……
Corvus: "Procedures"? You mean ...

鲍里斯：别着急，这就是我说的第二个条件——
Pyrrhos: I'm getting there. Second—

鲍里斯：我需要对整趟车进行一次彻底搜查。
Pyrrhos: I need to conduct a full search of the train.

似曾相识的对话。停靠、登记、检查……简直没完没了。
Same old talk. Stops, papers, inspections ... it never ends.

告死鸟：乘客们已经经历过一次全面登记了，再来一遍除了造成无意义的恐慌，我看不出来有任何益处。
Corvus: The train's already been searched. You'd only raise more concern with the passengers.

告死鸟：如果你需要，我可以提供给你相关文件资料。
Corvus: I can provide you the passenger list if you must check.

军官摇了摇头。
Pyrrhos shakes his head.

鲍里斯：相信我，没人愿意半夜三更来干这得罪人的工作。但那些士兵倒得太蹊跷，报告已经呈上去了。
Pyrrhos: Believe me, my people don't enjoy this any more than yours do. But ... *tut* word has gotten out. It's only a matter of time until people start asking questions about the attack.

鲍里斯：我派人调查，就只是一个简单的表面流程。可一旦公司和政府查起来，这列车上藏了什么、我们都干了些什么……可就全摊在阳光底下了。
Pyrrhos: Besides, better that I do it, rather than getting the government or the company involved. We wouldn't want their prying eyes looking any closer, now would we?

告死鸟：……
Corvus: ...

这似乎是一个令人难以忽视的理由。列车长沉吟片刻，缓缓开口。
His point is made. The conductress carefully chooses her next words.

告死鸟：别动加挂车厢里的人，别惊扰乘客，列车组必须全程陪同。
Corvus: One of my crew members will be with you at all times. And tell your men to stay clear of the "cargo."

告死鸟：此外……列车现在物资紧缺，我们需要更多食物和医疗供给。当然，还有最重要的——列车在布达佩斯的优先通行权。
Corvus: As for the time we're losing, I need compensation: food, medicine, and priority clearance when we reach Budapest.

告死鸟：布达佩斯东站的行政手续一向很繁琐。列车每多停留一分钟，加挂车厢暴露的可能性就会越大。
Corvus: The paperwork there is cumbersome, and each minute the train is stopped risks our "cargo" being exposed.

告死鸟：如果以上要求你都能做到，那么我们可以配合。
Corvus: It's give and take. Do we have a deal?

鲍里斯：……
Pyrrhos: ...

军官的表情空白了一瞬，随即显出淡淡的无奈。
His expression blanks, then yields a faint resignation.

鲍里斯：原来如此。我猜你早就打算好在这里和我谈条件了。你总是知道如何寻找一个巧妙的时机给我添麻烦……
Pyrrhos: Iglika, Iglika ... *tut* I knew you wouldn't make this easy. You never do.

告死鸟：这只是一次双方自愿且完全平等的谈判而已，鲍里斯。
Corvus: This is a fair negotiation, Pyrrhos, for both of us.

告死鸟：我们都需要履行各自的职责，不是吗？
Corvus: We both have responsibilities to attend to, yes?

坐席车厢

紧闭已久的车门缓缓开启。列车长走在前头，步伐稳健，脸上带着一丝罕见的轻松。
The door creaks open. The conductress leads, her steps firm, face lightened by unusual ease.

军官跟在她身后，脸上不见怒意，却也远远称不上愉快。
Pyrrhos follows, neither angry nor content.

艾玛：哈啊……终于出来了。你们似乎聊了很久……
Aima: *yawn* Finally. Is everything alright? That was a long talk.

鲍里斯：放心吧，没有人吵架，也没有人受伤。我还没蠢到跟她硬碰硬——你这位老板可是谈判桌上的刽子手，而我只想尽快签字走人。
Pyrrhos: Of course, sweetheart. I got a little carried away talking about the good old days, and I should know better than to challenge your boss at the bargaining table.

军官抱怨着，忽然弯下腰，压低了声音。
He mutters complaints, then bends low, voice dropping.

鲍里斯：嘿，小家伙。刚才光顾着谈工作，还没来得及和你好好说话。
Pyrrhos: Listen, I'm sorry we haven't had a chance to talk. There's a lot on my plate right now.

鲍里斯：等检查工作做完……我有一份“礼物”要送给你。
Pyrrhos: But when I'm done, I have another "gift" for you.

艾玛：还有别的礼物？是新的裙子吗？可我的衣柜已经满啦……
Aima: Another? But Uncle Pyrrhos, my closet is already bursting.

鲍里斯：嘘……到时候你会知道的。
Pyrrhos: Shhh, this one's a secret. You'll see soon enough.

他眨眨眼，又伸了个懒腰，慢悠悠跟在列车长身后离开了。
With a wink and a lazy stretch, he trails after the conductress, out of sight.

TMW-13 不归者 / The Non-Returnees

车厢外传来沉闷而杂乱的脚步声，紧接着又是一阵不满的喧哗。
Outside the carriage come heavy footsteps, followed by a wave of restless complaints.

雅科夫：……听声音，像是军队的人来了。
Yakov: You hear that? Boots. Sounds like soldiers.

拉伊哈：是那位鲍里斯先生吗？
Reyhan: Could it be Pyrrhos again?

塞梅尔维斯：鲍里斯？
Semmelweis: Pyrrhos?

雅科夫：负责这次“偷渡行动”的军官，听说同列车长是一伙儿的。
Yakov: An army officer. He's working with the conductress to get us out of here.

新的名字，新的麻烦。
A new name, a new problem.

调查员皱起眉毛。
Semmelweis frowns.

塞梅尔维斯：……野树莓小姐，我想我们应该回去了。
Semmelweis: Come on, Rubuska. Time to go.

野树莓：啊？噢，没错！我应该在艾玛的车厢里才对，被发现可就糟了……
Rubuska: Huh? Oh, right! I'm supposed to be in Aima's cabin. I better not be seen here.

小伊凡：请等一下……野、野树莓小姐！
Ivanushka: W-Wait! Ms. Rubuska!

正欲离开的女孩听见了声音，又回过头来。
Just about to leave, she turns back to face the boy.

小伊凡：我只是想说，刚才你保护了我们，谢谢……你很勇敢，希望未来我也能像你一样勇敢！
Ivanushka: Th-Thank you for protecting us. I-I hope I can be brave like you when I grow up.

小伊凡：你是一个好血食怪！
Ivanushka: You're a good vampire!

女孩忍不住微笑起来。她俯下身，摸了摸男孩的脑袋。
She can't help but smile as she leans down to pat his head.

野树莓：你也是个好孩子，小伊凡。
Rubuska: And you're a good boy, Ivanushka.

野树莓：好了，现在你们的好血食怪需要暂时离开，一会儿再回来给你们通风报信。
Rubuska: Now listen, this good vampire has to go up front for a bit. But I'll be back soon with news from the other carriages.

野树莓：有我在，没人能伤害你们——来，伸出手。
Rubuska: No one will hurt you, you got that? Not while I'm around. Here, pinky promise.

她朝小伊凡伸出右手，小拇指轻轻勾起。
She reaches out her right hand to Ivanushka, hooking her pinky.

于是，小伊凡伸出尚且完好的右手，小拇指与女孩的勾在一起。
So Ivanushka lifts his good hand, pinky finger locking with hers.

小小的约定就此落下。
Their promise is sealed.

小伊凡：我们在这里等你。说好了哦……野树莓。
Ivanushka: I'll be waiting for you. You promised, so come back soon, Rubuska.

野树莓：好。接下来……这个我就没收了。
Rubuska: Don't worry, I will. Look, I'll take this.

她拾起脚边的那节木桩，在手中晃了晃。
She picks up the wooden stake at her feet and gives it a little shake.

野树莓：就当作是我们约定的信物吧。放心，我一定会回来的！
Rubuska: As a token of our promise. So you better hold the fort for me until I bring it back, alright?

座席车厢

告死鸟：大家安静，这只是一次例行检查。
Corvus: Ladies and gentlemen, please bear with us while we conduct a routine check.

安娜贝尔：你……你会抓走我们，就像对野树莓那样吗……
Annabelle: A-Are you going to take us too? Like you did with Rubuska?

小威廉：把老大还给我们！不然我就躺在地上，好叫你们什么也查不出来！
Little William: You give her back right now! Or I'll ... I'll lie down right here! I-I'll be an unmovable object!

男孩熟练地瘫倒在地，握紧肉乎乎的小拳头，像一位即将壮烈赴死的志士。
The boy flings himself to the ground, clenching his pudgy fists like a martyr ready to face his fate.

这是对付多萝西女士的杀手锏，男孩从不轻易示人——除非万不得已。
It's his final card to play, a tactic that has worked on the adults before, and one that he's counting on to work now.

告死鸟：你确定吗？我可以让你永远都躺在这里。
Corvus: If you are set on being "unmovable," I'd be happy to stitch you into the carpet.

小威廉：……
Little William: ...

他害怕地咽了咽口水。
He swallows hard.

小威廉：老大回来前……我是不会起来的！你、你死了这条心吧！
Little William: I-I'm not moving! Not until Rubuska's back!

空心木：例行检查？又一次？
Verity: Another search? Again?

空心木：哦，我明白了。你们这是打算每天做两遍检查，以防乘客吃过午餐后就立刻变成了什么别的物种。
Verity: I suppose you can never be too sure whether someone's transformed into a beast over lunchtime.

艾玛：万分抱歉，我们只是想再次确认……
Aima: We're ever so sorry for the inconvenience, but this is for your safety; we just have to check whether ...

索尼娅：好啊，那我也该再次确认你们有没有携带脑子工作。
Sonya: Oh, I have something to "check" too, young lady. Namely, whether anyone on this crew actually has a brain knocking around in their heads!

索尼娅：要我说，你们不是在维持秩序，而是制造混乱——这是列车纪律的羞耻，不是安全保障！
Sonya: You say this is for our safety, but all you've done is stir up chaos. You ought to be ashamed!

车厢内一片混乱。
The carriage is in chaos.

人们离开了各自的座位，热闹地挤作一团，眼看便要引发新一轮的动乱——
People leave their seats, crowding and shouting. The tension seems about to erupt into fresh turmoil.

鲍里斯：好了各位，现在该收起你们不合时宜的幽默感了。
Pyrrhos: That's quite enough commotion, everyone.

军官随手将手枪别回腰间，仿佛只是做了一件无关紧要的小事。
The officer slides his pistol back into his belt as if it were nothing more than a pen—just a tool.

所有人都安静了下来。就在这不安的静默里，另一道被掩藏已久的声音终于得见天日。
In the uneasy silence, another sound breaks through.

“咔……咔——咔咔……”
Hrrrk ... Urrrgh ... Rkkk ...

那是规律的、似有若无的声音，仿佛消化不良的节肢动物正在蠕动腔肠。
A slow, irregular churning, like the rumbling stomach of some terrible creature.

声音低了下来，随后又是一阵猫似的呜咽声。
The noise dips, then rises again into a catlike whimper.

“呜……”
*wail*

人们顺着声音的源头，一同望向角落里面色发白的绅士。
All eyes turn toward the pale-faced gentleman in the corner.

阿不思诺：我……别、别这样看我……
Arbuthnot: I ... W-What're you all starin' for?

阿不思诺：不是我……
Arbuthnot: That weren't me.

脚步声忽然响起。
Footsteps echo.

久未现身的调查员快步向人群走来，身后还跟着本该在车厢里沉睡的野树莓。
Semmelweis strides through the gathered people at a quick pace, with Rubuska trailing close behind.

告死鸟：你们怎么会在这里？
Corvus: What are you two doing here?

塞梅尔维斯：请先让我过去。刚才那个声音……
Semmelweis: Please, allow me through. There's something wrong.

调查员一边说着，大步朝阿不思诺走去，一把拽住他的手腕。
She moves as she speaks, grabbing Arbuthnot's wrist and yanking it away.

阿不思诺：等等！我说了不是我——
Arbuthnot: Watch it! I told you, it weren't me.

她推开阿不思诺，望向缩在他背后的、一直耷拉着头的陌生乘客。
She shoves him aside and looks at the slumped stranger hiding behind him.

塞梅尔维斯：你是什么人？之前做登记的时候没有你。
Semmelweis: Who are you? I didn't see you during the registration.

塞梅尔维斯：方便说话吗，先生？
Semmelweis: Can you speak, sir?

生病的乘客：……
Unwell Passenger: ...

乘客以一种极慢、极缓的速度仰起脸。
The passenger can hardly lift his face to meet hers.

他的脸色很白。瞳孔外，菌丝般的红色正延展向眼眸中央。
His face is chalk-white. Red streaks score outward from his pupils.

随后他张开嘴，里面荡漾着一片粘稠到发黑的血色海洋。
Then he opens his mouth, revealing a thick, black sea of blood swirling inside.

生病的乘客：咔……咔咔——
Unwell Passenger: Chk ... Chklga—

喷血特效

众乘客：啊啊啊啊——！
Passengers: AAAAHHHH!

生病的乘客：救……救我……
Unwell Passenger: H-Help ...

男人倒在地上，喉咙里不断呕出血来，又被他“咕噜咕噜”咽了回去。
He collapses, choking on the blood, gurgling as he swallows it back down.

调查员蹲下身，掀开他的眼皮。
The investigator kneels and pries open his eyelids.

塞梅尔维斯：……感染种？
Semmelweis: An Infected?

塞梅尔维斯：但和文件里描述的感染种症状……很不一样。是发生异变了吗？
Semmelweis: But this looks nothing like the usual symptoms. A mutation, perhaps?

告死鸟：——！！
Corvus: ...!

乘客Ⅲ：能不能讲点我们能听懂的话？感染种，感染什么了？
Passenger III: Hold on! Hold on! Would anyone care to explain this? What's an Infected? Infected by what?

空心木：重感冒，沙门氏菌，肺结核。你以为呢？
Verity: A pinch of cold, a dash of salmonella, and a spoonful of tuberculosis—what do you think?

空心木：当然是血食怪感染种。
Verity: He's been bitten by a vampire.

乘客Ⅲ：血！血食……
Passenger III: Va-Vampire?!

倒下

接二连三遭遇惊吓，乘客白眼一翻，终于晕了过去。
Overwhelmed with shock, the passenger faints.

乘客Ⅰ：上帝保佑……血食怪？我还以为那只是传说……
Passenger I: My goodness. A vampire? On this train? I figured those were just old stories.

鲍里斯：这里混进了不该有的东西，伊格丽卡。是那个血食怪女孩儿，对吗？
Pyrrhos: Oh, dear. Looks like we've got an unwelcome guest aboard. Iglika, did that strange girl do this?

他看向野树莓。
He looks toward Rubuska.

鲍里斯：刚才我听孩子们一直吵着说什么没有影子的“血食怪老大”。
Pyrrhos: I overheard the children talking about some shadowless "vampire boss."

多萝西：噢……我一直以为这只是孩子们的玩笑话！
Dorothy: Oh my. I thought it was just a silly game!

人们默不作声地打量着女孩。失去毡帽的遮掩，暗红色的双瞳再也无处遁形。
Everyone turns to Rubuska in a convicting silence. Without her hat, there is no hiding those ruby eyes.

于是，所有的恐惧都有了可以解释的根源。
Their fears find a cause.

乘客Ⅳ：我从一开始就觉得她不像是买了票的乘客，吵吵闹闹的。
Passenger IV: I knew there was something wrong with her the moment she came on board. All that shouting and running about.

乘客Ⅱ：嗯……仔细一看，她的皮肤也太苍白了一些……
Passenger II: And look, she's awfully pale, too.

野树莓：不……不是我干的。
Rubuska: No. No, it wasn't me.

鲍里斯：很遗憾，这里不是法庭，我也不是你请的律师。我们只负责一件事——清理麻烦。
Pyrrhos: This isn't a courtroom; there's no use pleading your case. You're going to have to leave the train.

鲍里斯：虽说血食怪不是我们的首要任务，但放任你在车上溜达？封闭车厢，一群毫无防备的活人……
Pyrrhos: After all, we can't have a vampire wandering free on a train full of ordinary people now, can we?

鲍里斯：小朋友，这里可不是你的专属豪华晚宴。
Pyrrhos: You'll have to find your next bite elsewhere, kid.

军官朝身后挥挥手。
Pyrrhos signals to his men.

鲍里斯：来人，把她带下去。
Pyrrhos: Take her away.

边防士兵Ⅰ：遵命，长官。
Border Checkpoint Soldier I: Yes, sir.

沉重的脚步声响起，两名士兵一左一右抓住了野树莓的胳膊。
Heavy boots stomp closer as two soldiers seize Rubuska by the arms.

野树莓：放开我！这是个误会……
Rubuska: Don't touch me, ah! Let me go! You've got it all wrong!

小威廉：不许带走我们的老大！
Little William: She said: Don't touch her!

下一秒，几个孩子从人群中冲出，围在士兵身旁吵闹个不停。
In the next instant, several children rush from the crowd, tugging at the soldiers and shouting.

安娜贝尔：老大说过了，这是个误会。或许你们可以先听她解释……
Annabelle: Please, sir, please listen! Maybe it's a mistake!

边防士兵Ⅰ：滚开！别妨碍我们执行公务。
Border Checkpoint Soldier I: Hey, back off! Whose kids are these? They're interfering with a military operation!

士兵不耐烦地端起步枪。
One soldier raises his rifle in irritation.

多萝西：见鬼……你们不要命了？快回来——！
Dorothy: They're with me! For crying out loud, you two, come back here!

野树莓：安娜贝尔！别掺和大人的事！
Rubuska: Annabelle! This is grown-up stuff, okay? You've got to stay out of it!

孩童们却不为所动。安娜贝尔一面拽住士兵的衣摆，一面焦急地看向野树莓。
The children don't budge. Annabelle clutches a coat hem, looking up at Rubuska in panic.

混乱的人群中，唯有她苍白的面容清晰可见。
In all the chaos, hers is the only face sharp and clear.

安娜贝尔：快跑，老大！
Annabelle: Run, boss!

枪声
……

…………
...

母亲：快跑，野树莓。
Mother: Run, Buska.

逃跑声
回到车厢

空气中弥漫着浓重的硝烟味。
The air reeks of gunpowder.

所幸无人受伤，只在顶部留下了一个不规则的凹陷。
No one is hurt, but a jagged dent scars the ceiling.

边防士兵Ⅰ：滚回去找你们的家长，不然下一个吃枪子儿的就是你们……
Border Checkpoint Soldier I: Last warning! Where are your parents?

边防士兵Ⅰ：呃啊啊！
Border Checkpoint Soldier I: Argh!

瘦小的身影趁乱挣脱束缚，飞扑而上。
In the chaos, a small figure breaks free and hurls herself at the soldier.

安娜贝尔：老大……是野树莓老大！
Annabelle: No! Boss—Rubuska!

野树莓死死抱住士兵，尖牙深深刺入手臂，像是要将他的血连同肉一并吸食殆尽。
Rubuska locks onto his arm, her fangs sinking deep into his skin, sucking as if to drain every drop from him.

野树莓：姆枪……放下！<把枪……放下！>
Rubuska: *muffled* Put it down!

TMW-14 征服者爬虫 / The Conqueror Worm

起步
But see, amid the mimic rout,

可看哪！那群小丑之中
A crawling shape intrude!

忽然闯入一只蠕动的怪物！

它浑身血红。
A blood-red thing that writhes from out

从舞台阴影爬行而出！
The scenic solitude!

它扭动——扭动！令人不寒而栗。
It writhes!—it writhes!—with mortal pangs.

——爱伦·坡《征服者爬虫》
— Edgar Allan Poe, The Conqueror Worm

解上下黑边

边防士兵Ⅰ：嘶——该死的！
Border Checkpoint Soldier I: Tch. Damn vampire!

士兵猛地将女孩甩开，他的手背上留下了一对鲜红的牙印。
The soldier hurls the girl aside, his hand marked with two clear bite wounds.

野树莓：哈哈哈……哈哈哈哈哈！
Rubuska: Hahaha ...

女孩咧开嘴，露出沾染了红色鲜血的尖牙。
She bares her teeth, fangs dripping red.

野树莓：这下你也要变成血食怪了，咱们一块儿被抓走吧！
Rubuska: Look who's going to be a "damn vampire" now? Hah! Guess I'll have a little company in that cell!

阿不思诺：哦，我的上帝……
Arbuthnot: Bloody hell!

索尼娅：这下可好，我看这里就快变成血食怪的乐园了，一个接着一个……
Sonya: Oh, that's just wonderful! This train will be infested with vampires before long.

人群自动退出一个圈，将士兵和女孩围留在中间。孩童们也被多萝西紧紧护在了怀中。
The gathered people form a ring around the soldier and the girl. The children are pulled close by Dorothy.

野树莓：……
Rubuska: ...

女孩感到自己全身发热，心跳一声快过一声。
Heat surges through her body, her heart pounding faster and faster.

她紧紧盯着士兵。是的……下一秒，他就会面色惨白地跪倒在地。
She locks on him. Yes, any second now, he will pale and collapse.

他的血管会像初春的枝丫一样不断蔓延，长进他的眼睛里、嘴巴里，然后像间歇泉那样喷出一股一股鲜红的汁液。
His veins will branch like spring twigs, crawling into his eyes and mouth, then spray jets of blood like a fountain.

然后……
And …

然后什么也没有发生。
Nothing happens.

边防士兵Ⅰ：虚惊一场？哈，你这该死的小畜生……
Border Checkpoint Soldier I: Hahaha! I didn't feel a thing. You little brat.

被袭击的士兵抬起手，刚准备打下去——
The soldier raises his hand to strike her.

他的手腕被紧紧攥住，冷淡的声音从身侧传来。
But his wrist is seized. A cold voice cuts in.

告死鸟：鲍里斯，这可不是“流程”的一环。如果你无法管住自己的人，那我只能按我的方法来了。
Corvus: Enough. Pyrrhos, this was not a part of our deal. Discipline your men, or I will.

列车长收回手，脸上隐约浮现出一丝厌烦。
Corvus lets go, annoyance flickering across her face.

鲍里斯：嘶……这家伙今天似乎格外冲动。放心，我们会严肃按照纪律下达处分。
Pyrrhos: Easy now. This fellow's just a little on edge. I'll see to it that he learns his lesson, I assure you.

鲍里斯：不过在此之前，我们还是得继续刚才的话题。
Pyrrhos: But for now, we seem to have a far more intriguing problem.

军官迈着不紧不慢的步伐，在野树莓身前停下。
He steps forward unhurried, stopping before Rubuska, sneering down at her.

野树莓：咳咳……为什么……
Rubuska: *cough* Why hasn't he—

野树莓：不，他应该被感染才对。他被血食怪咬了，他……
Rubuska: He should've turned by now. I-I bit him—tasted his blood.

鲍里斯：真有意思。看来这个小家伙还沉浸在梦中呢。
Pyrrhos: How adorable. Still living in your fairytale world, are we, little lady?

他蹲下身，饶有兴趣地盯着女孩血红色的眼睛。
He crouches, studying her crimson eyes.

鲍里斯：你为什么要假扮血食怪？
Pyrrhos: Tell me—why would you pretend to be a vampire?

野树莓：……！
Rubuska: ...!

女孩的嘴角微微颤抖起来。她忽然觉得冷极了。
Her lips tremble. Suddenly she feels cold.

野树莓：我没有假扮，我就是……
Rubuska: I-I'm not pretending. I-I am.

鲍里斯：你染红的眼睛和影子把戏确实都很有意思。
Pyrrhos: *tut* Come now. Those little tricks—the red eyes, no shadow? Very clever. Quite the flair for theatrics, in fact.

鲍里斯：但这边的军队同各式各样的玩意儿都打过交道。你可以是人类、神秘学家，或者别的什么东西……
Pyrrhos: But I've come face-to-face with real monsters, little lady, and you're not one of them. You may be human or arcanist.

鲍里斯：唯独不可能是血食怪。
Pyrrhos: But a vampire? *scoff* Not a chance.

野树莓：……
Rubuska: ...

野树莓：我、我不明白你在说什么……
Rubuska: What? I-I don't understand what you're saying.

野树莓慌乱地试图逃开军官的审视。然而随着她的移动，一小块阴影从她颤抖的脚下漏了出来。
Rubuska tries to shrink away, but her shadow, beneath her quaking feet, betrays her.

小威廉：她、她有影子！
Little William: Look! Her shadow—it's moving!

野树莓：——！
Rubuska: ...!

野树莓：这是、这是……
Rubuska: This ... I ...

阴影越长越大，伴随着她失控的声音，又慢慢缩回到一个适中的大小，一个最为普通的形状。
The shadow grows and warps, then retreats again into a modest, ordinary shape.

她看向周围环绕的人群。那些脸上有怀疑、有疏远、有怜悯……
She looks at those around her, finding suspicion, distance, pity ...

所有情绪交织成一张沉默的网，将她牢牢困住，使她窒息。
Emotions that weave into a suffocating trap.

安娜贝尔：老大……
Annabelle: Boss ...

野树莓：不、不，我没有说谎……
Rubuska: I—No, I'm telling the truth!

女孩努力扯出一个微笑，说话又快又急。
The words tumble out quick and desperate.

野树莓：我是德古拉的末代后裔，我的父亲是最最最好的血食怪阿诺德六世！
Rubuska: I am the youngest descendant of Dracula himself. Daughter of Arnold VI, the greatest night-ruler of our time!

野树莓：我们一起打败了残忍又狡猾的康拉德和康拉德那狡猾又残忍的儿子……然后……
Rubuska: Together, we defeated Conrad the Wicked and his monster of a son, and then ...

野树莓：对，然后是战争！战争毁了我们的一切……但没关系，我还是那个强大的血食怪野树莓！
Rubuska: And then the war came! It tore apart our home, and only I survived! Me! Rubuska the vampire!

野树莓：没有影子不怕子弹受伤了伤口也会马上愈合……
Rubuska: The Shadowless, the Unbleeding, the Unwoundable!

她眼里闪着狂乱的光，脸颊因那些幸福的遐想而染上一层鲜血般的玫瑰色。
Her eyes shine with madness, cheeks flushed rose-red by fevered daydreams.

野树莓：我看到他们的尸体堆积成山，鲜血汇成河流，战火在远方一直燃烧……
Rubuska: I crawled over mountains of corpses, waded through rivers of blood, ran between fire and screaming shells.

野树莓：一切都成了虚无，但我依旧活着。
Rubuska: Everything and everyone's gone, except me! I lived!

野树莓：我和我的血族——父亲、母亲，还有弟弟妹妹……
Rubuska: I carry the strength of my father, mother, sisters, and brothers.

野树莓：我们一起活着！
Rubuska: Their blood runs through my veins!

她停了下来，急促地喘息着，眼里带着近乎绝望的渴求。
She falters, panting, her gaze full of near-hopeless yearning.

野树莓：我是、我是最强大的血食怪野树莓——
Rubuska: I'm *pant* I'm the powerful, deathless vampire Rubus—

“咚——！”
*thump*

话音未落，女孩脚下一软，仿佛被抽去骨架般倒了下去。
Her legs give way, body crumpling like her bones are gone.

军官面无表情地收起枪托，随手拎起女孩的胳膊，将她扯到一旁。
The officer lowers his rifle butt without expression, hauls her up by the arm, and drags her aside.

鲍里斯：叽里呱啦叽里呱啦，头都被她吵晕了。
Pyrrhos: Unbelievable. She sure knows how to give a speech.

鲍里斯：带走她，放到车站单独看守。
Pyrrhos: Bring her to the warehouse at the station. Keep her in a separate room.

失去意识的“血食怪”被士兵扛在肩上带走了。
The unconscious "vampire" is thrown over a soldier's shoulder and carried off.

告死鸟：你做得有点过火了，鲍里斯。你明知道她不是感染的源头。
Corvus: This is too far, Pyrrhos. She is not a vampire.

鲍里斯：她假扮血食怪，还袭击我的士兵，如果要认真追究起来，可不是让她闭嘴那么简单。另外……
Pyrrhos: No, but she pretended to be one, didn't she? And she obstructed my men's duties. Besides ...

他看向一旁早早已不省人事的乘客，抬高了声音。
He looks over the passengers who fainted on the floor, his voice rising.

鲍里斯：车上现在出现了感染种，我们需要尽快把乘客隔离起来挨个调查，以免事态进一步恶化。
Pyrrhos: With an Infected onboard, we can't take any chances. Until we're sure there aren't more of them, the train will have to be kept under quarantine.

告死鸟：……我来解决，以“多瑙黎明号”的方式。
Corvus: This is my train. We will handle this my way.

告死鸟：别忘了，我们需要让列车顺利抵达布达佩斯，没有时间再给我们浪费了。
Corvus: We must reach Budapest on schedule. We don't have time for this.

鲍里斯：你来解决？看看你的乘客，他们信任你的手段吗？
Pyrrhos: So, you'll handle it, will you? After letting a vampire slip right under your nose and still having no clue where it is?

军官耸耸肩，看向周围的乘客。他们窃窃私语着，向列车长投去怀疑的目光。
Pyrrhos shrugs toward the whispering passengers, glancing toward the conductress with doubt.

索尼娅：又是中途停靠又是放任血食怪上车，这趟列车的乘务组确实糟糕透顶……
Sonya: This is utterly unacceptable. To have all these delays and let a vampire on board of all things?

乘客Ⅱ：……还是让军队来控制比较好……
Passenger II: Maybe it'd be better if the army just took over. At least they seem to know what they're doing.

告死鸟：……
Corvus: ...

鲍里斯：答案显而易见。
Pyrrhos: Need I say more?

他朝身后挥了挥手。
He motions to his waiting troops.

士兵们鱼贯而入，很快便占据了车厢剩余的空间。
Soldiers march in, quickly filling the carriage.

鲍里斯：各位乘客，我的人会把你们带到该去的地方。你们只要听从指令，一切问题都会解决。
Pyrrhos: Listen up, everyone! My men will escort you to a safe location shortly. Just stay seated for now and remain calm. So long as you cooperate, I promise everything will be fine.

告死鸟：……你早就计划好这一切了——摧毁信任，再接管列车，把它变成你的专属领地。
Corvus: So this is your plan? To turn my passengers against me and seize control of the train?

告死鸟：你到底想做什么，鲍里斯？
Corvus: Why? What's in it for you?

鲍里斯：我只是在履行我的职责而已，伊格丽卡。
Pyrrhos: *tut* Come now, Iglika. I'm only doing my duty. You should know that after all these years.

谈话间，更多士兵涌入了车厢。军官小声嘱咐了几句，翻开乘客名单。
As more soldiers press in, he murmurs instructions and flips through the passenger list.

鲍里斯：我看看……尼科拉、亚历山大、约万……跟我走。
Pyrrhos: Let's see. Nicola, Alexander, Jovan—you three come with me.

鲍里斯：剩下的人乖乖听话。最好别想着做什么小动作，枪口可不长眼。
Pyrrhos: As for the rest of you ... Well, I suggest you stay put. Any risky or dangerous behavior will be dealt with accordingly.

塞梅尔维斯：……
Semmelweis: ...

调查员环顾周围黑洞洞的枪口，小心隐蔽着自己的身形。
Semmelweis keeps her eyes trained on the armed men but maintains a low profile.

塞梅尔维斯：刚才那个人……如果是感染种的话，他的症状似乎发作得有些过快了。
Semmelweis: Something's not right. If that man truly is Infected, his symptoms developed much quicker than any case I've ever heard of.

车窗外依旧落着雪。调查员摊开手心，望着那一枚暗淡的、刻着“重塑之手”标记的徽章。
She opens her palm, staring at the dull badge etched with the mark of Manus Vindictae.

塞梅尔维斯：那位军官说得没错。封闭车厢，一群毫无防备的活人……如果再放进来几个感染种，列车将变成一个可怕的囚笼。
Semmelweis: But he also made a fair point. With all these civilians in a confined space, if another Infected shows up, it'll be a massacre.

塞梅尔维斯：这会是你们的真实目的吗？“重塑之手”。
Semmelweis: Is this what you wanted, Manus Vindictae?

TMW-15 云雀蛋糕 / Lark Cake

脸1特效

蛆虫。越来越多的、柔软的蛆虫。
Maggots—so many of them—wriggling, squirming, biting.

我知道他们的身体里有一部分已经腐烂了。我清楚地知道。
I know they've rotted away, that their bodies have melted into the mud. I know that.

脸2特效

记忆中只剩下一张女人的脸。
Still, I remember a face—her face.

她被士兵们按在泥坑里，脸上沾满鲜血、污泥和雨水，可她的眼睛却很亮。
Pressed into the ground, red with blood, black with mud and rainwater, but still, I saw the warm brown of her eyes.

直到临死前，那双灰褐色的、不断涌着泪水的眼睛都在一直看着我。
They looked at me, they wept, until her breathing stopped, and the tears turned dry.

“脸”：跑……
"The Face": Go.

“脸”：快跑……
"The Face": Run for your life.

她低声呜咽着，好像翻来覆去只会说这两句话。
That's all she said, like they were the only words she could remember.

小野树莓：不。我不会抛下你们的。
Young Rubuska: No. I don't want to.

小野树莓：别赶我走，妈妈……
Young Rubuska: I don't want to leave you, Mама.

脸3特效

“脸”：不……你必须……
"The Face": Go ... Run ...

“脸”：你必须……
"The Face": You must go.

跑！野树莓……
Run, Buska!

快跑！！
RUN!

从那天起，那声音便再也没离开过我。
Those words never left me.

它总是在落日的时候、快要熟睡的时候、没命地狂奔在树林中的时候，忽然跳出来，就像我的另一个影子。
I hear them whenever the light gets low, just as I'm about to fall asleep, or as I run through the woods with everything I have. It's like a second shadow, one that covers me entirely.

小野树莓：妈妈……不……
Young Rubuska: Мама ... No ...

除了不断流泪以外，那时候的我又能做什么呢？
I cried. I bawled. What else could I do?

我只能跑。
Run. That's what.

跑得越远越好，越快越好。
As far as I could. As fast as I could.

将母亲那张狂乱的脸连同纷乱的枪声、尖叫声一同揣进记忆深处……
And I buried the screams. Buried the gunshots. Buried her face deep in my memory.

然后再也不回头。
And never looked back.

血色墓园

小野树莓：爸爸……
Young Rubuska: There you go, Dad.

小野树莓：小……尼古拉！
Young Rubuska: Now, Kolyo!

小野树莓：你可真沉呀，小笨猪……
Young Rubuska: You've grown a lot, haven't you?

小野树莓：好！接下来……
Young Rubuska: Okay. *pant*

小野树莓：最后是……
Young Rubuska: And last ...

小野树莓：妈妈。
Young Rubuska: It's your turn, Mама.

小野树莓：……
Young Rubuska: ...

那些将土地染成血红色的炮火和异乡人已经离去，留下浑浊的河流、惨叫的风和陷入永恒沉睡的身体。
The guns and the strangers who wielded them have gone for now, leaving behind fields caked with blood and bodies lost to eternal slumber.

等到一切都静下来，曾经的村庄成为了遍地焦土的废墟。
When all settles, the village is nothing but a scorched ruin.

女孩再次回到这里，将家人们合葬在了一处无人的土坑里。
The girl buries her family together in a nameless pit.

爸爸、妈妈，还有一小部分的尼古拉……这就是她能找到的全部了。现在，他们都被整齐地摆放在土坑里，像瓷娃娃躺在泥土铺就的睡床上。
Father, mother, and little Kolyo lie neatly arranged, like porcelain dolls on a bed of dirt and leaves.

小野树莓：大家都睡着了……可是，天还没黑呢……
Young Rubuska: Why are you all sleeping? It's still light out.

小野树莓：我不想一个人醒着。别丢下我，我们一起沉入梦乡吧……好吗？
Young Rubuska: I don't want to be the only one awake. Let's all fall asleep together, alright?

女孩也躺了下去，小心翼翼地蜷缩在“母亲”身旁，让她早已僵硬的手臂环绕到自己的胸前。
She lies down with them, curling close to her mother, pulling a stiffened arm around her chest.

小野树莓：好暖和……妈妈，你要像小时候一样抱着我哦，还有还有，给我梳梳头发吧……
Young Rubuska: This is nice, like when I was little, and you used to hold me, Mама. When we wake up, will you comb my hair?

断指缠绕在她的发间，那轻微的触碰使她安心。
Cold fingers tangle in her hair, yet in her mind it feels like comfort.

小野树莓：妈妈，给我讲睡前故事吧。血食怪的故事，你已经讲了很多很多遍啦……没关系，我还想听……
Young Rubuska: Mама, tell me a story, would you? Please? I know you've told the vampire story a hundred times, but just once more, please.

小野树莓：“他们在血色的月光下复生，永远游走在黑夜的阴影里……”
Young Rubuska: "In the light of the blood moon, they rise and stride under the veil of night."

小野树莓：“他们的世界是自由的，没有死亡，也没有恐惧……”
Young Rubuska: "Freely, they live, without fear of death."

小野树莓：“只需饮下鲜血，他们便将永世长存。”
Young Rubuska: "For through blood they live forevermore."

闭眼
Her breath is shallow. Consciousness slips away with whispered stories as her eyes close, and she falls into slumber.

关闭眼

她闭上双眼，呼吸越来越轻。意识在模糊的呓语中悄然松弛，然后坠落，再坠落——
Because blood is life.

鲜血即是生命。
小野树莓：鲜血即是生命！
Young Rubuska: Because blood is life!

小野树莓：对，没错！血食怪只要吸食了鲜血，就能从墓穴里复生……
Young Rubuska: That's right! As long as they drink blood, vampires can rise from their graves and live forever!

女孩猛地坐起，惨白的脸染上了奇异的光彩。
The girl bolts upright, pallid face glowing with a strange light.

她咬破手指，将血液轻轻抹在母亲的嘴唇上。
She bites her finger and smears the flowing blood over her mother's lips.

那一瞬间，奇迹似乎发生了。
For a moment she believes in miracles.

鲜血在母亲的唇间微微溢出，犹如红色的玛瑙石般闪烁着，点亮了她那张原本晦暗发青的面庞。
The blood beads on cold lips, glowing like red agate, lighting up death's grim mask.

小野树莓：——！！
Young Rubuska: ...!

女孩惊喜地扬起嘴角。
The girl smiles with delight.

小野树莓：太好了，太好了，妈妈……
Young Rubuska: Yes, good, Mама!

小野树莓：我也要给爸爸、尼古拉都来上一点儿……
Young Rubuska: A little for Dad, too, and for Kolyo.

小野树莓：搞定啦！
Young Rubuska: All set!

她在每个家人的唇上都抹了一层厚厚的、浓郁到几乎有些滑稽的鲜血。
She smears thick, almost comical streaks of blood across her family's lips.

小野树莓：是的，我想起来了。就像故事中说的那样……
Young Rubuska: Yeah, we're just like the story!

小野树莓：爸爸、妈妈、小尼古拉，还有我——野树莓，我们本来就是血食怪一家呀！
Young Rubuska: Dad, Mама, Kolyo, and Rubuska—a vampire family!

小野树莓：难怪妈妈以前喜欢涂口红。红红的，像血一样美的口红。
Young Rubuska: That's why Mама likes to wear lipstick. It's just like blood.

小野树莓：别担心，妈妈……我重新为你涂上了。
Young Rubuska: Here, have a little more, Mама.

她温柔地抚摸着家人的脸庞。
She caresses their faces tenderly.

小野树莓：我已经猜出了身份的谜题。所以，你们快醒来吧……
Young Rubuska: Am I a clever girl? I figured it out. Now, we'll all wake up soon, right?

小野树莓：我知道，血食怪的复活需要很长、很长一段时间。
Young Rubuska: I know it might take a while, but I'll wait.

小野树莓：放心吧，在你们醒过来之前，我会一直等着你们、保护你们。
Young Rubuska: Don't worry. I'll be right here, watching over you.

一阵风轻轻吹起，呜咽一般的鸟叫声自天边响起。
A breeze lifts. A bird's cry drifts in from afar.

女孩看向如血的晚霞，吸了吸鼻子，朝天空挥舞着稚嫩的拳头。
The girl looks toward the scarlet-red sunset, sniffs, and raises her tiny fist to the sky.

小野树莓：你们别想伤害我的家人！
Young Rubuska: Don't even try to touch my family, you hear me?!

小野树莓：我、我可是德古拉的末代后裔，强大的血食怪野树莓！
Young Rubuska: I'm Rubuska the vampire, descendant of Dracula himself!

小野树莓：我在血色的月光下复生，永远游走在……走在黑夜的阴影里！
Young Rubuska: I'll rise in the light of the blood moon and stride under the veil of night!

小野树莓：我的世界是自由的，没有死亡，也没有恐惧。
Young Rubuska: I'll live freely, without fear of death!

小野树莓：我将保护我的亲族，直到永远的永远的永远的——
Young Rubuska: I'll watch over my blood forever and ever—

小野树莓：永远！
Young Rubuska: —forevermore!

斩钉截铁，掷地有声，来自一个孤独而激情、幼小但强大的血族后裔。
Her vow is sharp and unyielding, the fiery voice of a young but powerful child of an ancient and noble vampiric bloodline.

？？？：假的。
???: Liar.

小野树莓：咦，是谁在说话……？
Young Rubuska: Huh? Who's there?

她循着声音低下头去。不知为何，刚才鲜活的家人们此刻却变为了腐烂的尸体，红艳艳的嘴唇却一齐弯成了诡异的弧度。
She looks down again, and the illusion breaks. Cold blood dries on rotting faces. Their mouths bent into grotesque smiles.

小野树莓：你们……是谁？
Young Rubuska: Who are you?

小野树莓：呀！小尼古拉，你的衣服弄得太脏了……这样会挨妈妈骂的！
Young Rubuska: Kolyo! What happened to your clothes? Mама's going to be mad at you!

尸体双眼浑浊，浓重的死气环绕着躯体，面部已经溃烂，只剩下衣着还能依稀辨认出昔日身影。
Their eyes are milky and puckered dry, bodies cold and sagging, gray faces gaunt—blood-soaked and tattered clothes the last vestiges of their identities.

小野树莓：妈、妈妈……妈妈……别这样！妈妈，你抱抱我……你快醒来抱抱我呀……
Young Rubuska: Mама, Mама, Mама, wake up. Please, please hold me.

小野树莓：不要！不要！不要！
Young Rubuska: No! NO!

小野树莓：爸爸……妈妈！
Young Rubuska: Mама! Dad!

她尖叫着撕下一片衣服，用力地擦拭亲人溃烂的脸庞，只换来阵阵更加鲜明的腐臭。
She screams, ripping cloth, scrubbing furiously at their faces, but the flesh gives way like ripened cheese.

小野树莓：不……我们是血食怪……你们是不会死的，不会的……
Young Rubuska: No! You're not dead. We're vampires! We can't die!

她擦拭的力道牵扯着他们的嘴角，使那沾着鲜血的嘴唇展露出诡异的微笑。
Her rough wiping tugs at their mouths, baring smiles soaked in blood.

？？？：哈哈哈哈……
???: Hahahaha ...

笑声开始膨胀，从血色的嘴唇、无边的天幕与尸云中倾倒而出，哀号着、回荡着，如万千钟声齐鸣。
Laughter swells, spilling from red lips, from the sky, from the corpses, howling, echoing, like a thousand bells ringing at once.

？？？：假的！所有的一切——
???: Lies! All of it.

？？？：鲜血、红眼睛、尖牙、亲族的复生——都是假的！
???: Red eyes, fangs, the resurrection of our family—all lies!

小野树莓：不……
Young Rubuska: No ...

她害怕极了，转身奔跑在无尽的血日下。
Terrified, she runs toward the distant red sun.

然而无论她跑到哪里，这笑声却不打算放过她，像是奔涌在她体内、永不停歇的冰冷血液。
No matter how far she goes, the laughter seems to chase her.

？？？：跑！哈哈哈……
???: Off you run! Hahaha.

跑啊，野树莓——
Go, run, Rubuska!

跑啊！！
Run!

野树莓：——！！
Rubuska: ...!

女孩从深沉的梦中睁开双眼。
Rubuska jolts awake from a deep sleep.

野树莓：不是……假的……
Rubuska: It's not a lie.

野树莓：……
Rubuska: ...

心跳慢慢回落，视线逐渐适应眼前的黑暗。
Her heart slows. Her eyes adjust to the dark.

身旁弥漫着熟悉而又令人作呕的气息——死亡的气息，混杂着淡淡的燃油和烟草。
The stench beside her is revolting and bitterly familiar—death, mixed with fuel and smoke.

她转动眼珠，却与另一张膨胀发青的面庞四目相对。
She turns her gaze and meets another face, swollen and bluish.

野树莓：……
Rubuska: ...

那是一具早已发硬的尸体。青黑色的血管狰狞地缠绕在半透明的皮下，仿佛苍白古木那不断孽生的枝蔓。
A corpse, stiff and cold. Black veins coil beneath its pale skin like twisted branches of a dead tree.

眼神沿着躯干缓缓上移，最后定格在那张熟悉的脸上——她曾见过他，就在风雪纷飞的车站里。
Her eyes follow the body upward until they freeze on a face she knows—one she has seen before, back at the snowbound station.

回忆
渐入

乘客Ⅰ：类似的故事没有几百也有上千啦。血食怪吃人、狼人吃人、野兽吃人……
Passenger I: No, no, not precisely, but many like it. Vampires, werewolves, wild beasts, and monsters.

乘客Ⅰ：说到底，本质都是人吃人罢了，还非要安上一个名头。这些写故事的人呀，就喜欢这么弯弯绕绕。
Passenger I: It's always the same story about the powerful consuming the common folk. Heh, storytellers have always been good at making their points one way or another.

消回忆

野树莓：渐出
Rubuska: It's that old man from the train station.

野树莓：是车站的那个老爷爷……

老人的生命定格在了毫无意外的结局之中。
The irony of his warnings is a bitter mix of comedy and tragedy.

？？？：你醒了。
???: You are awake.

角落的黑影动了动，慢慢长成一个高大的人形。
A shadow in the corner stirs, taking the shape of a looming man.

鲍里斯：渴吗？
Pyrrhos: Thirsty?

野树莓：你是刚才的那个军官……这些都是你干的？
Rubuska: You-you're that officer. What is all of this? Did you ... Did you kill these people?

军官置若罔闻，仿佛压根儿没听见女孩说话。
Pyrrhos ignores the questions.

破抹布在地上发出沉闷的拖拽声。最终，它被随手扔在野树莓面前。
The rag drags across the floor with a heavy scrape, tossed casually to Rubuska's feet.

鲍里斯：很遗憾，这里没有别的食物和饮用水了，但血和肉一定管够。
Pyrrhos: I'm afraid I haven't been a very good host, and alas, our water supply has run dry. Blood, however? Well, we've got plenty of that.

鲍里斯伸出手，长长的、发黑的指甲情人般轻拂过尸体的手腕。
Pyrrhos extends his hand, long blackened nails stroking the corpse's wrist with a vile tenderness.

流血

鲍里斯：喝吧，“小血食怪”。
Pyrrhos: Drink up, Little Miss "Vampire."

血沿着野树莓的头发向下流淌，先是睫毛、眼睛，再是鼻子……最后是嘴。
Blood runs down Rubuska's hair, lashes, eyes, nose, finally her mouth.

野树莓：咳咳……唔呕——！！
Rubuska: *cough* Blrrrghh!

鼻尖满是腥臭的血气，她再也支撑不住，半趴在地上疯狂呕吐。
Her nose fills with the stench of blood. She collapses halfway to the floor, retching violently.

肉菜烩饭冰冻果子露果仁蜜饼云雀蛋糕……
Stew, frozen berries, honey bread, lark cake ...

所有她吃过的好东西全都顺着肠胃的痉挛一并呕出，和地上那些污秽的血水以及组织器官紧密交融，不分彼此。
Everything she's eaten pours out with each spasm, mingling with the foul blood and shredded organs on the ground.

鲍里斯：……真是狼狈啊。真正的血食怪可不会这样。
Pyrrhos: Not so demure at the table, are we? *tut* How embarrassing. I knew you weren't one of us.

野树莓：呼，呼……你……
Rubuska: *pant* You ...

她仰起苍白的脸，看向眼前男人的双瞳。
She lifts her pale face and meets the man's horrid gaze.

那是不同于她的、完全没有掺杂一丝杂质的纯净血色，仿佛月光下静静流淌的鲜血海洋。
His eyes are pure crimson, flawless, like a sea of blood flowing under moonlight.

毋庸置疑的血脉，毋庸置疑的身份。
An undeniable bloodline. An undeniable identity.

野树莓：你也是……血食怪？
Rubuska: You're a vampire, too?

鲍里斯：当然。哦，纠正一点，没有“也”。
Pyrrhos: Through and through. But you? It seems not to be so.

鲍里斯：哈哈……还没清醒过来吗？可怜的小冒牌货。
Pyrrhos: Still lost in your dreamland, little imposter?

野树莓：不……我不是冒牌货……
Rubuska: Don't call me that.

野树莓：我的亲族……他们不久就将从墓穴里醒来，与我重聚……
Rubuska: My family—my blood—they'll rise from the grave soon, you'll see! We'll be together again.

她挣扎着吞咽着流淌的鲜血，直到满脸满身都是血迹。
She chokes and swallows the blood until her face and body are smeared with scarlet.

假的。那一天永远也不会来。
A lie—that day will never come.

车站仓库

野树莓：……
Rubuska: ...

鲍里斯：哈哈哈哈……
Pyrrhos: Hahahaha ...

男人开怀地笑了起来。
The man cackles.

鲍里斯：这是怎样一张可悲到令人发笑的脸啊。谁说疯子就不值得同情呢？
Pyrrhos: Aren't you a sorry little thing? It almost stirs something in this useless old heart.

鲍里斯：不错，你让我很满意。所以，我可以给你一个实现愿望的机会。
Pyrrhos: In fact, I've almost come to like you. Tell you what, I could make your wish come true.

野树莓：实现……愿望？
Rubuska: My wish?

军官血色的双瞳闪烁着不可捉摸的危险。
His blood-red eyes gleam with unfathomable danger.

鲍里斯：没错。实现你的愿望，小可怜——
Pyrrhos: You heard me. I can help you ...

鲍里斯：成为一名真正的血食怪。
Pyrrhos: Become a real vampire.

TMW-16 雪与惊魂夜 / Winter Fright Night

小威廉：不——我是不会跟你们走的……绝不！
Little William: No. I'm not going with you! NEVER!

小威廉死死抱住列车座椅的扶手，发出足以杀穿列车层层钢铁外壳的尖叫声。
Little William clings to the seat rail, screaming loud enough to pierce steel.

“隔离条令”发布后不久，乘客们被打乱、分离，而其中部分乘客转移到了列车长车厢。
After the quarantine order, passengers are scattered, some herded into the conductress's cabin.

边防士兵Ⅰ：松手。
Border Checkpoint Soldier I: Let go.

士兵们上前，一根一根掰开男孩倔强的胖手指。
Soldiers pry open the boy's stubborn fingers one by one.

塞梅尔维斯：先生，从所谓的“隔离”开始，你们已经从这里带走十个人了。
Semmelweis: Officers, with all due respect, you've taken a dozen passengers already.

塞梅尔维斯：我能问问他们会被送去什么地方吗？
Semmelweis: May I ask where you're taking them?

边防士兵Ⅰ：嘘——！
Border Checkpoint Soldier I: Shh!

士兵抬起枪，枪口对准了调查员踩在门缝上的皮靴。
A rifle raises, muzzle aimed at the boot now wedged in the doorframe.

边防士兵Ⅰ：请把脚收回去，女士。
Border Checkpoint Soldier I: Step back, ma'am.

边防士兵Ⅰ：隔离期间不得踏出车厢门半步。
Border Checkpoint Soldier I: Nobody leaves the carriage until quarantine is over.

塞梅尔维斯：……
Semmelweis: ...

调查员沉默着，慢慢收回脚。
She says nothing but pulls her foot back.

边防士兵Ⅰ：很好，女士。
Border Checkpoint Soldier I: Thank you.

边防士兵Ⅰ：配合我们的工作。放心，这一切很快就会结束的。
Border Checkpoint Soldier I: Just work with us, please, and soon this'll all be over.

士兵说完后，将男孩横过来夹在腋下，大步离开。
The soldier slings the boy under his arm and marches off.

小威廉：安娜贝尔……不！
Little William: Annabelle! No!

车门上锁的声音沉沉落下，留下被隔离在同一车厢内的不安乘客和面容严肃的看守士兵。
The heavy lock clicks shut, leaving only anxious passengers and stone-faced soldiers.

乘客Ⅱ：没有通知隔离时间，也没有水和食物……这不是隔离，这是囚禁。
Passenger II: No food, no water, and no idea how long they'll keep us. This isn't separation. It's imprisonment!

乘客Ⅲ：比囚禁还不如！起码犯人还知道自己什么时候会刑满释放……
Passenger III: Worse than that! At least prisoners know their sentence!

安娜贝尔：小威廉和多萝西女士都被带走了，老大也一样……
Annabelle: They took William and Ms. Dorothy, and Rubuska hasn't come back, either.

感知到士兵目光中的警告，女孩害怕地抱紧怀中的娃娃。
Sensing the soldier's warning glare, the girl clutches her doll tight.

塞梅尔维斯：……
Semmelweis: ...

调查员悄悄摁下通讯器，却只听到一连串麻木的电流声。
She presses her communicator and is met with static.

她发出的讯息仿佛都被遗落在了无人的孤岛，没有任何回音。
Her words and any vital intelligence she could share are stranded with her.

塞梅尔维斯：通讯干扰，携带的软盘也无法使用神秘术——呵呵，意料之中。
Semmelweis: Something's jamming my signal. And the teleport disk isn't working either. Heh, someone came prepared.

调查员走到车厢门前，透过窗户朝前面的车厢内看去。
Semmelweis approaches the door and peers through the window into the next car.

塞梅尔维斯：……
Semmelweis: ...

眼前是如台风过境般的惨烈景象。
The scene is carnage.

一切本应安静摆放的物品，如今乱作一团，又因血迹的点缀而显得分外诡异。
The once opulent carriage is a spectacle of disaster, its walls painted with blood.

塞梅尔维斯：这是……
Semmelweis: What on earth ...?

？？？：啊啊啊……！
???: Aaahahah!

从车厢的另一角传来了拖长的、如泣如诉的呜咽声。
A low, drawn-out wail comes from the corner.

塞梅尔维斯：这声音……好像是之前走掉的士兵……这么快就回来了？
Semmelweis: Hm? Seems a little early for that soldier to be back.

边防士兵Ⅱ：嘶……到底怎么回事？
Border Checkpoint Soldier II: What the—Everything alright?

边防士兵Ⅱ：去看看……
Border Checkpoint Soldier II: Ah. Idiot. Better go check on him.

看守的士兵提起枪，急匆匆离开了。
The soldier stiffens, lifts his rifle, and hurries away.

塞梅尔维斯：趁看守离开的间隙，我们开诚布公地聊一聊吧，列车长女士。
Semmelweis: He's gone. Conductress, I think it's time you and I had a heart-to-heart.

调查员走到列车长面前，开门见山。
She steps up to the conductress, blunt and direct.

塞梅尔维斯：这一切都很不对劲。
Semmelweis: This is all wrong.

塞梅尔维斯：整件事都是鲍里斯设计的一个幌子，所谓的隔离只不过是变相软禁罢了。他们口中的“隔离”可不像是在预防血食怪感染。
Semmelweis: No food, no water, no radio signal. I don't believe they're doing anything to protect the passengers from infection. This isn't a quarantine; this is a cover-up.

告死鸟：看样子你的调查工作有进展了。
Corvus: What are you suggesting?

调查员不再掩饰，而是拿出先前从巡逻队身上拾起的徽章。
The investigator reveals the badge in her hand.

塞梅尔维斯：如果我没记错的话，你手上也有一个。
Semmelweis: This insignia. I believe you have one just like it.

告死鸟：所以这才是你一直在找的东西。
Corvus: That's what you were sniffing around for.

塞梅尔维斯：这不是眼下的重点。它是我一直在调查的组织——“重塑之手”的信物。
Semmelweis: It belongs to an organization I've been tracking—Manus Vindictae.

告死鸟：重塑之手？
Corvus: Manus Vindictae?

塞梅尔维斯：我猜你应该不是重塑之手的一员，不然鲍里斯不会如此提防你，你也不会和我们一起被关在这里。
Semmelweis: At first, I thought you were one of them. Yet here you are, locked up like the rest of us. Perhaps Pyrrhos doesn't trust you all that much.

列车长困惑的表情使调查员进一步验证了她的猜测。
Corvus's look of confusion—certainly genuine—serves to confirm her suspicion.

塞梅尔维斯：重塑之手，一个危险的极端神秘学家组织，以引发混乱为乐，每个成员都是不折不扣的疯子。
Semmelweis: The Manus are a group of extremist arcanists that take pleasure in chaos and despair. Heartless bastards, every last one of them.

告死鸟：……这原本是鲍里斯提供给我们的、方便大家识别自己人的信物。
Corvus: Never heard of them. The badge is Pyrrhos's, some kind of identifier for his men.

塞梅尔维斯：根据我登车前所掌握的情报，再结合眼下的状况……鲍里斯很可能与重塑之手投放在列车上的血食怪有关。
Semmelweis: When I took this mission, our intelligence suggested that the vampire I'm after may be associated with Manus Vindictae. If Pyrrhos is working with them, he could be working with the vampire aboard.

塞梅尔维斯：甚至有可能就是那位血食怪本尊。
Semmelweis: It's possible, indeed, that he could be the vampire himself.

告死鸟：……
Corvus: ...

告死鸟：鲍里斯是血食怪。
Corvus: Pyrrhos is a vampire.

列车长不再回避，平静地宣读了真相。
No more evasions and equivocal answers, the conductress calmly reveals the truth.

告死鸟：我们曾经并肩作战，他为组织贡献过很多力量。他聪明，冷静，总是能在关键时刻做出最理性的判断。
Corvus: We were comrades-in-arms once. One of the most capable fighters we had—clever, composed, he always made the right decisions when it counted.

告死鸟：因此我从未想过他会和什么“极端神秘学家组织”扯上关系。
Corvus: I would never have thought he'd be involved with such an organization.

塞梅尔维斯：那么，几乎可以肯定了——他就是重塑之手安插在列车上的血食怪。
Semmelweis: I'm afraid it's almost certain that he's the vampire Manus Vindictae had sent to this train.

真相终于浮出水面。调查员长长吐出一口气，背后的重量终于卸下。
At last, a lead. Semmelweis breathes a long, drawn-out breath, letting the weight fall off her shoulders.

塞梅尔维斯：既然彼此已经挑明，那么我想请问，我的队友们……
Semmelweis: Now that things are out in the open, do you have any idea what happened to my squad?

列车长摇摇头。
The reply comes with a resigned shake of her head.

告死鸟：很遗憾，我确实从未见过你的队友们。
Corvus: No. I haven't seen any of them.

告死鸟：曾有基金会的成员搭乘过列车，又和车上的神秘学家们起了一点小冲突。因此我对他们有印象——很显然，不是好的那一种。
Corvus: I'd know. As I've said before, this isn't the first time we've had the Foundation aboard. Last time there was a confrontation between them and some other arcanists.

塞梅尔维斯：抱歉。很多时候，惹人不快也是我们工作的一部分。
Semmelweis: Hah. Sometimes, I think causing trouble might be our primary mission.

塞梅尔维斯：重塑之手，我不清楚他们真正的目的，但恐怕……
Semmelweis: But let's return to our vampire. I'm still not certain what Manus Vindictae is up to, but ...

告死鸟：恐怕和刚才被感染的乘客有关，是吗？
Corvus: That vampire infection couldn't have been a coincidence. Someone meant for it to happen.

列车长冷笑一声，轻轻摩挲着银制手枪上的雕花。
The conductress sneers, her fingers tracing the silver engraving on her pistol.

告死鸟：我认识鲍里斯很多年了，他最近的行为虽然很异常，但只要不干涉列车的正常运作，我对他的私事不感兴趣。
Corvus: I've known Pyrrhos a long time. But lately he's been strange. I usually wouldn't attempt to interfere with his business.

告死鸟：但这一次……他越界了。
Corvus: But these are my passengers—my train.

塞梅尔维斯：既然如此……身为“多瑙黎明号”的列车长，我猜你应该有办法帮助我们脱困？
Semmelweis: Glad to see we're finally on the same page. So, Conductress, can you get us out of here?

告死鸟：耐心，调查员。现在只剩最后一块拼图了。
Corvus: Haste makes waste, Investigator. There's a loose thread I'm waiting for, then we can pull all of this together.

塞梅尔维斯：我必须说，这已经不是耐心的时机了——
Semmelweis: We're long past the point for patience, if you ask me.

血手印
现场

安娜贝尔：啊——！！
Annabelle: Ah!

惊叫打断了二人的沟通。一只血手猛地贴上车窗，拖出一道道蜿蜒的血痕。
A bloody hand slaps the window, smearing crimson streaks down the glass.

？？？：呜……
???: Oh ...

塞梅尔维斯：是被感染的乘客。
Semmelweis: Another Infected!

塞梅尔维斯：现在你觉得我们还需要耐心吗，列车长女士？
Semmelweis: What was that about "haste makes waste," Conductress?

告死鸟：……
Corvus: ...

感染的乘客：过去……让我过去。
Infected Passenger: Through. Let me through.

咚。咚。
Thud. Thud.

他面无表情地嘟哝着，用头一下一下撞着车窗玻璃，直到额头鲜血淋漓。
The man mumbles flatly, headbutting the glass again and again until blood pours from his brow.

感染的乘客：让我。过去。
Infected Passenger: Let me through.

安娜贝尔：啊啊啊——！！
Annabelle: Ah!

安娜贝尔：他，他就要进来了……
Annabelle: He's ... He's breaking in.

感染的乘客：让我过去让我过去让我过去让我过去让我过去让我过去——
Infected Passenger: Let me through, let me through, let me through, let me through.

塞梅尔维斯：列车长女士，现在我们可用不了神秘术。
Semmelweis: Conductress, there must be something muting arcane skills on this train.

告死鸟：调查员，到我身后去。
Corvus: Arcane skills aren't everything.

她将乘客们护在后方，掏出别在腰间的手枪，将枪口对准车门。
She pulls the passengers behind her, draws her sidearm, and takes aim.

震屏

感染的乘客：呃啊——！！
Infected Passenger: Uggh!

尚未来得及开枪，被感染的乘客忽然被一股强大的外力拽离了人们的视野。
Before the shot fires, the infected passenger is yanked away by an unseen force.

震屏

更多血沾在了车窗上。鲜红的液体沿着窗框流下，留下一条条不规则的血痕。
Another splash of blood smears across the window.

塞梅尔维斯：……外面打起来了？
Semmelweis: What was that? Another Infected?

声音安静下来。不一会儿，门外又传来窸窸窣窣的响动。
The sound dies. Then comes a faint rustling outside the door.

一个毛茸茸的脑袋从车窗外缓缓升起。
A familiar face rises into view beyond the glass.

艾玛：是我……
Aima: No. It's just me.

塞梅尔维斯：如果我猜得没错……这就是你刚才所说的，最后一块拼图？
Semmelweis: Is she what you were waiting for, Conductress?

告死鸟：没错。艾玛，刚才引走驻军的人也是你，对吗？
Corvus: Exactly. Aima, you drew that soldier away, yes?

艾玛：嗯，我等了好久才找到机会……
Aima: Mm-hm. I waited for just the right moment.

告死鸟：做得好。现在外面情况如何？
Corvus: Well done. What's our situation?

艾玛：走廊上、车厢里到处都是……感染种，都是从仓库里跑出来的。现在整趟车都已经……
Aima: There are Infected everywhere—the cabins, the hallways—all through the train. They seem to be running out from the station warehouse.

乘务员面色发白，向大家诉说自己一路上的见闻。
The stewardess goes pale, recounting everything she saw outside.

艾玛：墙上、餐桌上、座椅下全是血，我一眼都不敢看……
Aima: There's blood everywhere, too, on the walls, on the floor ... I tried my best not to look at it.

塞梅尔维斯：真叫人意想不到。刚才那个被感染的乘客……是你杀的？
Semmelweis: Was it you who killed that Infected just now?

艾玛：嗯……
Aima: Well …

女孩有些害羞地拽了拽自己右侧的眼罩。
She tugs shyly at her eyepatch.

告死鸟：身为“多瑙黎明号”的乘务员，会点儿防身的技巧并不是什么稀奇事。
Corvus: I ensure all crew on the "Danube Dawn" are trained in self-defense. It's hardly surprising.

告死鸟：艾玛，继续说。
Corvus: Go ahead, Aima.

艾玛：好……
Aima: Oh, yes.

乘务员低着头，握成拳的手轻轻颤抖着。
She lowers her head, clenched fist trembling.

艾玛：刚才在外面的时候，我看到了那些士兵。我本以为他们会忙着安抚乘客，或者清理感染源，保护大家……
Aima: I saw those soldiers in their carriages. I thought they'd be caring for the passengers or removing the Infected, but ...

艾玛：可他们什么也没做，就像是……就像是在任由这一切发生。
Aima: They did nothing, as if it were of no concern to them whatsoever.

艾玛：乘客们被带去临时拘留室“检查”，然后又一个个被带去了仓库，紧接着一切都开始失控了……
Aima: They took the passengers, one by one, to some kind of detention room for inspection, then sent them to the warehouse. But then they started coming back out, like that.

乘务员一边说着，手指擦过脸上的点点血迹，放在嘴里含了一瞬。
She wipes a smear of blood from her cheek, then slips her finger briefly into her mouth.

艾玛：鲍里斯叔叔……我不知道他身上发生了什么，总之我们得先找到他。
Aima: Uncle Pyrrhos ... I don't know what's happened to him, but we have to find him.

告死鸟：我明白了。那些驻军呢？
Corvus: I see. How many soldiers remain aboard the train?

艾玛：有不少去临时拘留室看守关押的乘客了，车上剩下的数量不多。可、可以对付！
Aima: Not many. A few were sent to guard the detention room. I-I think we can handle the ones that are left!

乘务员小心翼翼地挥舞起小拳头。
The meek girl pumps her fist in an uncommon gesture of confidence.

告死鸟：很好。现在人已经到齐，没必要再等了。
Corvus: Good. Everything is in place; let's move.

艾玛：嘘……外面有脚步声。
Aima: Wait, shh. I hear footsteps.

艾玛：刚才我已经被人看到了，被发现可不好……
Aima: They saw me just then. I can't be seen here again.

乘务员迅速环顾了一圈，躲进了窗帘背后。
Aima's eye darts around before she ducks behind the curtains.

下一秒，车门被大力扯开。
Then, the door is opened forcefully.

边防士兵Ⅱ：见鬼……这下全失控了……
Border Checkpoint Soldier II: Damn it. This is getting out of hand.

处理完“意外事故”的士兵急匆匆跑进来，站定，再度将枪口指向没有抵抗能力的乘客们。
Soldiers, having dealt with the "unexpected occurrence," rush in, weapons raised at the frightened passengers.

边防士兵Ⅱ：不好意思，刚才耽误了一会儿……让我们接着下一个……
Border Checkpoint Soldier II: Where were we? On to the next passenger.

枪口漫不经心地左右晃荡着，最终落在安娜贝尔身上。
The muzzle drifts left and right, finally settling on Annabelle.

边防士兵Ⅱ：就你吧。小朋友，麻烦跟我们走一趟。
Border Checkpoint Soldier II: You. Little girl. It's your turn.

安娜贝尔：我……？不，我不要过去……
Annabelle: Me? I don't want to go!

边防士兵Ⅱ：行了，少废话——
Border Checkpoint Soldier II: Come now, be quiet.

摇晃的枪管被死死扣住。
The muzzle is locked in place.

告死鸟：她说了，她不想过去。
Corvus: You heard her.

告死鸟：听不懂吗？
Corvus: She said: No.

争执间，两发子弹不偏不倚地射在车厢的金属顶棚上。
In the scuffle, two shots ring out, each slamming into the metal ceiling.

士兵试图拽回步枪，然而枪管依旧被列车长牢牢握在手里，动弹不得。
The soldier tries to wrench back his rifle, but Corvus's grip is unyielding.

边防士兵Ⅱ：你……放手……！
Border Checkpoint Soldier II: You! Let go!

告死鸟：她不想过去。
Corvus: She's not going.

边防士兵Ⅲ：嘿。你们在做什么？都给我退后——
Border Checkpoint Soldier III: What's going on? Stand down, all of you!

又一个士兵出现在众人身后。他一手举枪，另一只手则颤抖着掏出一枚口哨。
Another soldier appears behind them, gun in one hand, whistle in the other, his fingers shaking.

告死鸟：去吧，艾玛。
Corvus: Go, Aima.

艾玛：噢……好的，我明白了！
Aima: Y-Yes. Understood!

乘务员摘下眼罩，露出另一只暗红如血的眼睛。
The stewardess tears off her eyepatch, revealing her other blood-red eye.

哨声还未来得及吹响，她便从阴影中一跃而出，以惊人的速度飞扑到士兵身上。
Before the whistle meets his lips, she leaps from the shadows, slamming into him.

边防士兵Ⅲ：滚、滚开！
Border Checkpoint Soldier III: Aargh! Get off me!

下一秒，她抡起胳膊，环住士兵的脖颈。
In a second, her arm snakes around his neck.

边防士兵Ⅲ：呃啊——！！
Border Checkpoint Soldier III: Uggh!

艾玛：很抱歉，枪和口哨我都没收了……！
Aima: Apologies for the shock, but thank you for the gun and whistle.

士兵们被轻松放倒在地。
The soldiers collapse.

乘务员将他们拖到角落，长舒一口气，又拉下了眼罩。
Aima drags them to the corner, exhales, and pulls her eyepatch down.

艾玛：这下没有人会被带走啦，暂时安全！
Aima: No one will take you away, Annabelle, at least for the time being.

艾玛：嗯？怎么都不说话……
Aima: Hm? Why is everyone so quiet?

乘客们默不作声，纷纷朝她投来讶异的目光。女孩惊喜地迎了上来，拉住她的裙角。
Passengers stare in slack-jawed silence. The girl runs up, tugging excitedly at her skirt.

安娜贝尔：红眼睛，还有尖牙……乘务员小姐，你……你也是血食怪吗？
Annabelle: Red eyes, fangs ... A-Are you a vampire too, Stewardess?

艾玛：抱歉，我不是故意隐瞒。不过放心，血食怪的身份不会影响我为大家服务的。
Aima: Oh. Well, yes, I am. But don't worry. It won't affect your service in any way whatsoever!

安娜贝尔：奇怪……你的另一只眼睛虽然像湖水那样美，却一点儿也不红。难道也是染红的吗？
Annabelle: But your other eye is all clear and blue, like a lake, not red at all. How did you do that?

艾玛：我……我不是纯种的血食怪。
Aima: I-I'm not a pure-blood vampire.

小乘务员轻轻摇头，并不打算就这个话题展开太多。
She shakes her head quietly before looking away; she has no intention of going any deeper into the subject.

塞梅尔维斯：想不到列车上的血食怪传说都是真的。只是……我以为它至少会高一点，或者凶一点，不是会端茶递水的那一种。
Semmelweis: I have to say, I didn't expect the stories of a vampire train to actually hold any truth. Though I doubt any of the stories had our vampires pouring tea and fluffing pillows.

告死鸟：部分是真的。艾玛从未伤害过任何人。
Corvus: There was never any truth to them. Aima may be a vampire, yes, but she's never done anyone harm.

塞梅尔维斯：我明白了。那么之前在树林里的时候，你们……
Semmelweis: Then, earlier, in the forest ...

回忆
渐入

她回忆起俩人在风雪中依偎时的场景。
She recalls the night in the snow, with the two of them pressed close together.

那时雪下得太大，她费力伸长脖颈，也只看见白雾、树影，以及一条在雪中飞舞的红色围巾。
The storm was so thick she could barely see, only mist, trees, and a red scarf whipping in the wind.

消回忆
渐出

告死鸟：是渴血症犯了。我将我的血给了她，就像以前无数次做过的那样。
Corvus: It was bloodthirst, so I gave her mine. It's an arrangement of ours.

列车长一边说着，轻轻整理了一下小乘务员因战斗而稍许松开的围巾。
Corvus adjusts the scarf around the small stewardess's neck.

塞梅尔维斯：先是加挂车厢，现在又是血食怪……你很擅长隐藏，列车长女士。
Semmelweis: First a secret carriage, now a vampire stewardess. What else might you be hiding up your sleeve?

告死鸟：放心，我们立场一致。起码在这次事件中，我们已经成为同伴。
Corvus: Nothing of your concern. We share a common interest, so let us treat each other as comrades.

告死鸟：同伴手握底牌，并不是什么坏事。观察、等待，然后一击致命。这是我的做事习惯。
Corvus: There may be tricks up my sleeve, but for now, we watch, wait, and then strike.

塞梅尔维斯：原来您还是一位出色的猎人。那么，下一步，您打算怎么做？
Semmelweis: You surprise me more and more, Conductress. Comrades it is, but what's our next move?

告死鸟：……
Corvus: ...

告死鸟：我本不想对老友动手。
Corvus: I wish there were some other way, old friend.

她吐出一口气，眼里闪过冰冷的光。
She exhales, a cold light flashing in her eyes.

告死鸟：艾玛，车上还剩多少乘客？
Corvus: Aima, how many passengers are left on board?

艾玛：我没数过，但士兵们把很多乘客押去了车站的临时拘留室。
Aima: I didn't count precisely; there were already quite a few that were taken to the detention room.

艾玛：哦！列车长，您难道是要……
Aima: Oh! Conductress, are you going to ...

列车长穿过人群，走到一个高大的橱柜面前，狠狠一拉——
Corvus pushes through the crowd to a tall cabinet and yanks it open.

告死鸟展示军火库

告死鸟：基金会的，你开过枪吗？
Corvus: You there. Ever handled a gun before?

乘客们：哇……
Stowaways: Whoa ...

墙壁上挂满了整齐排列的各式武器，在灯光下闪闪发亮。
Weapons line the wall in neat rows, gleaming under the light.

每一根枪管都被精心地擦拭、抛光，仿佛在默默等待战斗的号角。
Each one meticulously polished and ready, as if awaiting their call to battle.

塞梅尔维斯：……
Semmelweis: ...

塞梅尔维斯：所以你背地里还是个军火贩子？这数量要是放在某些国家，足以发动一次政变了。
Semmelweis: Yet another surprise. I don't think I ever would have expected you to be lugging an armory around with you.

告死鸟：一点小小的收藏爱好罢了。接着。
Corvus: It's a hobby. Take this.

她将一支悉心养护过的手枪取出并丢给调查员。
She takes a pistol down and tosses it to Semmelweis.

告死鸟：对付血食怪和感染种时，银色子弹比神秘术好用。
Corvus: Silver bullets are more effective than arcane skill when dealing with vampires and their Infected.

告死鸟：各自装备好武器，伙计们。接下来等着我们的……将是一场恶战。
Corvus: Anyone old enough to handle a weapon, arm yourselves. We have a fierce battle ahead.

TMW-17 睦邻 / Friends in Need

枪声四起。从守车离开不过半小时，车厢内早已成为硝烟弥漫的战场。
Gunfire erupts. In less than half an hour, the train turns into a battlefield.

塞梅尔维斯：见鬼……！
Semmelweis: Damn!

塞梅尔维斯：枪声把它们都吸引过来了。门——我们得把门关上。
Semmelweis: The gunshots are drawing them in. We've got to close the door!

告死鸟：你们先离开，我去关门。
Corvus: Head to the next carriage. I'll close the door.

告死鸟离开座椅的掩护，径直冲向那聚集了无数鲜血与哀号的危险禁地。
Corvus leaves cover and charges straight into the carnage.

安娜贝尔：列车长……不……
Annabelle: Conductress, don't!

告死鸟：别回头！！
Corvus: Don't look back!

被凝视的感觉实在太过强烈。安娜贝尔没有忍住，缓缓转过头……
The weight of unseen eyes is unbearable. Annabelle turns her head.

感染种扒车门

安娜贝尔：——！！
Annabelle: ...!

安娜贝尔：我……我想回家……
Annabelle: I-I want to go home.

告死鸟：……
Corvus: ...

告死鸟：都说了别回头了。
Corvus: I tried to warn you.

塞梅尔维斯：不行，这些家伙数量太多，我们根本对付不过来。
Semmelweis: There are too many of them. We can't do this alone.

感染的乘客：嗷啊啊……
Infected Passenger: Aaaargh ...

从列车外涌入越来越多的感染种。他们穿梭在各个车厢间，如同癌细胞一般增殖、扩散。
From outside, more Infected swarm in, spreading like a plague of locusts through every car.

号哭一声接着一声，仿佛永远都不会停歇。
Cries of panic and bloodlust rise and fall.

塞梅尔维斯：弹药还够，但很明显，我们人力不足。
Semmelweis: We have enough ammunition but not enough hands to fire them.

告死鸟：眼下只剩下一个办法了。
Corvus: There is still one option left.

告死鸟：我们的火力无法突破感染种的防守，应该去其他车厢争取尽可能多的乘客。
Corvus: There are more passengers. We can rally the people to fight.

塞梅尔维斯：来的路上，我们所见的车厢都被士兵占领了。或许存在尚有理智的乘客，但我对此不抱过多期望。
Semmelweis: The other carriages are still under guard; I doubt we'll find many willing passengers who are still fit to join us.

告死鸟：还有一个地方……就在守车后面，鲍里斯曾答应过我不会动它。
Corvus: Hm. I know where to go. Pyrrhos gave me his word he would leave them be.

塞梅尔维斯：所以你相信重塑之手成员的承诺？
Semmelweis: And you still think he'll stand by it?

告死鸟：很遗憾，我们没有更好的选择。至于他的承诺是否为真……
Corvus: It's our best chance. As for whether he has kept his promise ...

她呼吸平稳，枪口对准因撞击而愈发脆弱的车门。
She steadies her breath, aiming at the door buckling under the assault.

告死鸟：去看看不就知道了。
Corvus: We're about to find out.

枪声仍未停歇。
Gunfire still rattles.

此刻，又有新的声音加入战场——一连串散乱而密集的脚步声。
Another sound joins in—scattered, heavy footsteps.

拉伊哈：一个、两个、三个……不，远不止三个。
Reyhan: One, two, three ... No, there are more. Many more.

她的声音逐渐颤抖起来。
Her voice trembles.

拉伊哈：脚步声很杂乱，听上去不像是鲍里斯他们的人。怎么办，雅科夫？
Reyhan: They don't sound like soldiers. What do we do, Yakov?

雅科夫：……
Yakov: ...

雅科夫：大家备好武器，听我指挥。
Yakov: Ready your weapons, everyone.

脚步声越来越近，沉重的铜锁被再度拽起。
The steps draw closer. The lock strains.

人们纷纷拿出手中的“武器”，数十道目光落在那扇缓慢开启的车厢门上。
Passengers grip their makeshift weapons, every eye fixed on the opening door.

雅科夫：好……都给我上！
Yakov: Hold. Now! Attack!

人群一拥而上，毫不留情地将手中的武器往来客身上狠狠招呼。
The mob surges, raining down blows without mercy.

气急败坏的声音：见鬼，别打了——我们是来帮你们的！
Agitated Voice: Stop, damn it! We're here to help!

稚嫩的声音：娃娃……我的娃娃不见了……
Young Voice: My dolly ... I can't find her.

哭声、咒骂声和抱怨声此起彼伏，足以出乎所有人的预料。
Cries, curses, and wails crash together in a storm.

雅科夫：嗯？女人……还有孩子？
Yakov: Wait, wait! I heard the little girl! And-And a woman?

车厢内的小小战争终于停歇。
The little skirmish finds a belated end.

一支临时组建的军事小队出现在“偷渡”的乘客眼前，就连老人都配备了锃亮的装备。
A makeshift militia appears before them, young and old bedecked in piecemeal gear.

塞梅尔维斯：请大家放下手中的武器。
Semmelweis: Everyone, please lower your weapons.

塞梅尔维斯：谨慎是好事，但我想我们没必要每次一见面就兵刃相向。
Semmelweis: There's really no need to be at each other's throats each time we meet.

拉伊哈：是刚才的那位调查员女士，还有……列车长？！
Reyhan: It's that investigator. She's back. And the conductress!

列车长上前，将在冲突中被挤歪的帽檐轻轻扶正。
Corvus steps forward, adjusting a tilted hat brim.

告死鸟：不错，看来你们已经具备了组织和武装自己的能力。
Corvus: Excellent, you're already prepared to protect yourselves.

告死鸟：长话短说。这趟列车被血食怪感染种包围了，我们需要在座各位的帮助，不然列车将无法启动。
Corvus: I'll make this short. The train is surrounded by vampire Infected. We need your help to defeat them and get moving again.

告死鸟：为此我们准备了一些武器。大家挑把趁手的，然后……我们一起杀出去。
Corvus: Take a weapon if you're able. We'll fight together.

乘客们面面相觑，杂乱的车厢里短暂沉默了一瞬。
The stowaways and the passengers glance at one another. Silence holds for a moment.

“偷渡”的乘客Ⅰ：可……这一切和我们又有什么关系？
Stowaway I: But, why us?

“偷渡”的乘客Ⅰ：都是那些有权有势的贵族、军人搞出来的祸事，我们只是一群手无寸铁的偷渡客，为什么要为此买单？
Stowaway I: Look around you. We're just a bunch of regular folk—refugees who've probably never even touched a gun. The army's here, isn't it? Shouldn't they clean up this mess?

“偷渡”的乘客Ⅱ：没错。就算我们费尽心思救了他们，那些家伙会拿正眼瞧我们吗？
Stowaway II: And say we risk our lives to save other people from these Infected, what would stop them from reporting us if we try to cross the border after?

乘客们你一言我一语地议论起来，质疑一声高过一声。
Then voices rise again, questions sharp and insistent.

“偷渡”的乘客Ⅰ：没错！要我说，干脆把那几节车厢都卸了，我们剩下的人还能继续前往布达佩斯。
Stowaway I: She's right. I say we unload the carriages with the Infected inside, and the rest of us keep going to Budapest.

拉伊哈：你觉得呢，雅科夫？
Reyhan: You're quiet, Yakov. What are you thinking?

一声轻柔的询问声后，人群安静下来，所有人都看向他们的领袖。
A single soft query hushes the noise, all eyes turning to their leader.

雅科夫：……
Yakov: ...

雅科夫：我的意见是……
Yakov: I'd say ...

坐席车厢

另一侧的隔离车厢则要显得“安静”许多。
The other isolation car is quieter.

除了偶尔从外面传来的、堪比战争前线的枪炮轰鸣声以外。
Only distant gunfire breaks the silence, like the front line of war.

索尼娅：我感觉似乎不太对劲……
Sonya: This is all getting rather unnerving.

老妇人颤抖却仍旧不失仪态地放下手中精致的骨瓷茶杯。
The woman sets down her porcelain cup in a rattle. Yet she maintains an utter state of composure.

阿不思诺：难道是法国佬又攻进来了吗？！
Arbuthnot: Gunshots? Not another bleedin' war!

阿不思诺：我的枪……该死，我该带上……
Arbuthnot: Hell. I knew I should've brought my gun.

绅士警惕地四处张望，瞳孔不住颤动着。
The gentleman scans around them, his pupils twitching.

空心木：很好。看来我即将从一名杂志编辑转职成为战地记者。
Verity: So this is it, my career's turning point—magazine editor turned combat correspondent.

撰稿人终于舍得将头从笔记本中抬起。她走到车厢门前，朝外头瞟了一眼。
The editor finally closes her notebook, moving to the door for a peek.

血手印

一只血手忽然从窗外贴了上来，留下暗红的手印。
A bloody hand slaps against the window.

感染的乘客：呜呜……
Infected Passenger: Oh ...

乘客Ⅳ：哦！我的上帝啊，这是……这是……
Passenger IV: Oh, my! What on earth is that?

还原

空心木：是刚才见过的“感染种”？我倒不知道这还是可以量产的东西。
Verity: More of those Infected? Wasn't aware you could mass-produce such a thing.

编辑走到身侧的窗前，望向驻军扎营的方向。
The editor peers out further, toward the soldiers' camp.

士兵们匆忙地来回进出，不时高声喊叫和挥舞着什么。
Men rush back and forth, shouting, waving, losing all sense of order.

视线飘到更远的一栋灰色建筑。从那里正不时跑出来一些人影，他们尖声咆哮着，在雪地上留下一连串的暗红血迹。
Her eyes drift past them to a gray building. Figures burst out, shrieking, trailing blood across the snow.

一部分融入了远处幽暗的树林中，另一部分则向着列车的方向奔来。
Some wander into the forest; others charge toward the train.

空心木：看样子像是驻军的仓库……感染种都是从这里跑出来的？
Verity: That must be the station warehouse. Is that where these Infected are coming from?

空心木：从隔离到现在已经过去了将近两个小时。这期间究竟发生了什么……
Verity: It's only been two hours since the quarantine began. What's gone wrong?

撰稿人暗自思忖着，耳畔又传来一阵高亢的尖叫。
The editor frowns; another scream rings sharp in her ear.

感染种扒车门

乘客们：——！！
Stowaways: ...!

索尼娅：我的天哪……这是何等亵渎的景象……
Sonya: Oh, heavens! I've never seen such a thing in all my life!

阿不思诺：啊？啊……
Arbuthnot: Ah? Oh.

感染的乘客：进来。进……
Infected Passenger: Come ... in. Come.

乘客Ⅳ：见鬼，这扇门根本挡不住。我们得一齐堵上它！
Passenger IV: The door won't hold for long. Get something to block it!

玻璃碎裂

乘客们：啊——！！
Stowaways: Ah!

空心木：愣着干什么，快闪开……
Verity: What are you all standing there for? Get out of the way.

枪声震颤，猩红的血花在车窗上骤然盛开。
Gunfire rattles. Dark red bursts bloom across the train windows.

从硝烟中走出一群人影。他们荷枪实弹，神情疲惫，脸上沾满了血迹。
Through the smoke, armed figures emerge, faces pale and bloodied.

塞梅尔维斯：嘶……肩膀似乎拉伤了。
Semmelweis: Ah. Think I strained my shoulder.

告死鸟：我早就警告过了，霰弹枪不适合你。
Corvus: I did warn you. Someone your size can't handle a shotgun.

塞梅尔维斯：呵……对付成堆扑来的感染种，手枪的威力还不够让我足够优雅地死去。
Semmelweis: Well, you can hardly expect me to take them down one by one with a pistol.

空心木：各位是打算抢劫吗？丑话说在前面，现在我身上一分钱都没有。
Verity: If this is some kind of robbery, then I'm afraid you'll be disappointed. A writer always travels light.

告死鸟：不，我们是来向各位请求协助的。
Corvus: It isn't. We want your help.

告死鸟：……事情就是这样。边境站的驻军已经被血食怪感染了，军队带走了不少乘客。
Corvus: That is all we know. Most of the soldiers stationed here have been infected. Many passengers have become their captives.

告死鸟：多亏了他们的鼎力相助，我们才能突破感染种的包围，来到这里救出你们。
Corvus: It's thanks to their help that we made it this far.

她向身旁的难民乘客们颔首示意。
She nods toward the refugees beside her.

雅科夫：我们只是为了还列车长一个人情。
Yakov: Just repaying a favor. Think nothing of it.

雅科夫：她不求回报地帮助许多同胞抵达布达佩斯。光凭这一点，我们愿意帮她。
Yakov: She's helped so many people get to Budapest and asked for nothing in return. She'll have our support no matter what.

乘客Ⅲ：嘶……竟然加挂了车厢……
Passenger III: An extra carriage.

乘客Ⅳ：看上去真可怕……他们是刚从战壕里出来的吗？
Passenger IV: They look like they just climbed straight out of the trenches or something.

人们不安地交头接耳。眼前扛着枪的不速之客在他们眼里几乎就是贫穷与危险的代名词。
They whisper uneasily. To them, these unkempt and unruly strangers with rifles look no less monstrous than the creatures they had vanquished.

索尼娅：不管怎么说……感谢诸位的帮助。
Sonya: Well, in any case, we appreciate you rescuing us.

索尼娅：等列车靠站后，我一定会安排我那粗心大意的管家为各位送上一份厚礼……
Sonya: Once we arrive, I'll be sure to arrange for gifts to be sent your way.

雅科夫：厚礼就不必了，一会儿注意跟紧点儿，别乱跑——现在我们可都是一条船上的人了。
Yakov: That won't be necessary, ma'am. Just stay close, and we'll get out of here together.

索尼娅：抱歉，我不明白您的意思。我们需要转移去别处吗？
Sonya: Pardon my confusion. You mean to say we're to leave this carriage?

告死鸟：没错。离开之前我们得先去车站的临时拘留室，救出被关押的其他乘客。
Corvus: Yes. We need to see if any of the passengers are still alive.

乘客们：什么？！
Stowaways: What?!

乘客Ⅲ：我们只是一群手无寸铁的旅客，和军队干架？你们是在开玩笑吧……
Passenger III: You're not seriously asking us to fight those soldiers, are you? Infected soldiers, even!

吵闹声未见停歇。混乱中，一个孩子小心翼翼地从人群的缝隙中钻了出来。
The noise doesn't stop. In the chaos, a child squeezes out from the crowd.

小伊凡：列车长女士，您提到其他乘客……这也包括野树莓吗？我一直没有见到她……
Ivanushka: Um, Ms. Conductress, is Rubuska there, too? I still haven't seen her.

还没等告死鸟回答，又一个声音从背后响起。
Before Corvus can reply, another voice cuts in.

乘客Ⅳ：野树莓……你是指那个假血食怪吗？恐怕也被关起来了，她是最早被带走的乘客。
Passenger IV: Rubuska ... You mean that fake vampire? She was one of the first ones they took away.

小伊凡：假血食怪？可她明明有红眼睛和尖牙……
Ivanushka: Fake vampire? But she has red eyes and pointy teeth.

安娜贝尔：别听他们的！野树莓……她、她在我心里就是真正的血食怪！
Annabelle: Don't listen to her! Rubuska is a real vampire!

安娜贝尔：你认识野树莓。所以你也想和我一起救出她吗？
Annabelle: Are you one of her familiars too? Come on, let's rescue her together!

小伊凡：当然！
Ivanushka: Yes, let's!

小伊凡：她保护我们，还和我许下了约定……我们不能看着她身处险境。
Ivanushka: She protected us. I have to pay her back. We pinky promised.

索尼娅：哼。天真的孩子，你们不害怕外面的怪物吗？
Sonya: Hmph, children. Aren't you afraid of those monsters outside?

小伊凡&安娜贝尔：不怕！
Ivanushka & Annabelle: Never!

迫切而稚嫩的回答出乎所有人意料。
The bold, if childlike, answer surprises everyone.

拉伊哈：呵呵。瞧见了吗，就连孩子都比你们勇敢。
Reyhan: Haha, see? Even the kids have got more guts than you.

索尼娅：呃……
Sonya: You ...

阿不思诺：我、我们并非不能接受合作，可没有武器怎么行，总不能指望我们拿着刀叉冲锋吧？
Arbuthnot: It ain't that we're tryin' to get out of helpin', but we ain't got no weapons. What d'you expect us to do, fight 'em off with knives an' forks?

告死鸟：放心，我们早有准备。
Corvus: No need to worry about that.

列车长侧过身，让出一条路给身后的同伴。
She shifts aside, opening a path for her ally.

乘务员走上前，利索地解开身上携带的沉重麻袋，亮出里头乌泱泱闪着光的长枪短炮们，仿佛一位在市集向往来顾客们展示新鲜鲱鱼的渔民。
Aima steps forward, loosening a heavy sack, which pours out rifles and pistols into a motley assortment like a fisherman displaying his catch.

艾玛：大家可以按照自己的喜好挑一把武器！我带的都是方便上手的……
Aima: Take any you like. All the guns here are quite easy to handle. I picked them out myself.

阿不思诺：这……勃朗宁M1910！莫辛-纳甘！毛瑟C96！
Arbuthnot: An FN Model 1910! And this is a Mosin–Nagant! And a Mauser C96!

绅士兴奋地扑在麻袋前，贪婪的眼神一一舔过里面的存货。
The gentleman lunges into the pile with boyish glee.

阿不思诺：嗯，这把火力稳定，精准度高……不对，这把泵动流畅，射击更快……
Arbuthnot: This one's excellent—consistent firepower. But this beauty, she's got a smoother pump cycle—lovely for follow-up shots.

索尼娅：唉，这同那些时候又有什么变化？一个个的，都忙着送死。
Sonya: *sigh* Will the fighting ever cease?

老妇人发出一声哀叹。下一秒，她冷下脸，眼神是前所未有的冷酷。
The old woman sighs, then hardens. Her gaze turns ice-cold.

索尼娅：给我也来一把！重火力的！
Sonya: Alright, just pick one for me. Something with some punch!

TMW-18 吾血之血 / Blood of My Blood

枪
Against the rattle of gunfire outside, the warehouse seems unnervingly quiet.

与外面丝毫未见停歇的枪声相比，仓库则安静到近乎诡异。
The vampire's invitation still awaits a response. The girl bows her head, staring at her shadow.

车站仓库

血食怪的邀约尚未得到答复。女孩低着头，沉默地看着自己脚下的影子。

鲍里斯：我想我必须提醒你，血食怪的耐心远不及他的寿命来得要长。
Pyrrhos: Let me remind you that, although my life may be everlasting, my patience is not.

鲍里斯：而你此刻的犹豫……实在令人失望。
Pyrrhos: I have to say, your hesitation is disappointing.

野树莓：……
Rubuska: ...

野树莓：代价是什么？
Rubuska: What's this going to cost me?

她直视军官的双眼。
She looks into his crimson eyes.

野树莓：我一直是个很倒霉的人。
Rubuska: Every time I've been offered any kind of gift in my life, every time I've even come close to something ...

野树莓：通常落在我头上的好运，要么会被立刻收走，要么就是彻头彻尾的骗局。
Rubuska: It's either been taken away from me or turned out to be a complete fraud.

野树莓：先生，你的是哪一种呢？
Rubuska: So, sir, which one is it?

鲍里斯：都不是。我提供给你的，是血一样纯粹的现实。
Pyrrhos: Neither. Because I'm not offering you any "gifts," only an alternative reality.

鲍里斯：代价是一丁点鲜血，以及……你有很大几率会变成“它们”。
Pyrrhos: All it takes is a drop of blood and a little bravery, because there's a good chance you'll end up just like them.

他拾起身后一条软软垂落的手臂，朝野树莓亲切地挥了挥手。
He lifts a limp arm, waving it at her mockingly.

鲍里斯：但我相信，这点小小的障碍应该不足以抑制你的渴望。
Pyrrhos: A small ask, I'm sure, for someone such as yourself.

鲍里斯：你知晓代价，却甘之如饴。因为你也同样渴求它们，不是吗？
Pyrrhos: What's a little risk when your dreams are so very close? This is what you want, isn't it?

他向女孩伸出手。
He stands by the window, hand reaching for her.

向前走

野树莓：是的……我渴求它们……
Rubuska: Yes, I crave it.

眩晕
Dizziness grips her. A sudden, crushing tide of "fortune" crashes over Rubuska.

女孩感到一种奇异的眩晕。那突如其来的、毫无征兆的“好运”，此刻如海啸般席卷而来。
Stone, walls, cargo ... everything melts away.

下一秒，石砖、墙，堆积的货物……仿佛都消失了。
She stands in the middle of the cemetery under a blood moon.

鲍里斯的诱惑
Yes, the same damp cemetery her mother described a thousand times.

她仿佛身处墓园中央，头顶是一轮鲜红的血月。
Before her looms the vampire, Pyrrhos, cloaked in black like an ageless shadow.

是的……那是母亲曾无数次给她讲过的、血食怪栖息的潮湿墓园。

在她面前伫立的，是血食怪鲍里斯。他身披漆黑长袍，仿佛静默在月光下一千年、一万年的黑色阴影。

鲍里斯：你的眼睛早已告诉了我一切……
Pyrrhos: I can read it in your eyes.

鲍里斯：在你的内心深处，也曾渴求那永恒静寂的黑暗，以及它带来的无尽解脱。
Pyrrhos: The urge, the desire—an eagerness to embrace the stillness of the dark and be rid of all your mortal troubles.

鲍里斯：而我可以实现你的愿望。
成为血食怪，或是死亡。
Pyrrhos: And here I am, your wish-maker. Come to send you to the sweet cradle of night or of death.

月光洒在他的脸上，他的眼睛红得几乎渗出血来……血！血和他背后的尸体们，连同那些挥之不去的气味共同筑起了一道绵延万里的鲜血城墙。
Moonlight spills over his face. His red eyes overflowing. Blood, corpses, and the reek of death reflecting in them.

它们一齐俯视着她，仿佛血月下无数双眼睛。
She sees more than that; their dead eyes meet hers in the reflection.

选择吧！眼睛说。
"Choose!" They whisper.

你无法拒绝我们，正如你无法拒绝自己过往的人生。
You cannot refuse us, just as you cannot refuse your past.

鲍里斯：所以，你的回答是？
Pyrrhos: Well? What do you say?

野树莓：……
Rubuska: ...

眼前短暂浮现出往日的身影。妈妈，爸爸，弟弟，还有那些伙伴……
Faces flicker before her—mother, father, brother, and comrades.

这是一个再度与他们相见的机会。她有什么理由拒绝？
It is a chance to see them again. How could she refuse?

停顿

野树莓：……我接受。
Rubuska: Yes.

临时拘留所

孩童们：野树莓！
Children: Rubuska!

安娜贝尔：咦，不在这里……
Annabelle: She's not here.

手持武器的人们冲了进来，却并未找到那一抹熟悉的身影。
Armed men storm in, but the familiar figure is gone.

地上沾满了血迹，鲜红的液体依旧温热，蛇一样蜿蜒至众人脚下。
Blood stains the floor, still warm, trailing like a serpent.

塞梅尔维斯：血液有拖拽的痕迹……看样子部分乘客被转移了。
Semmelweis: There are drag marks. Seems they've transferred some of the captives.

明黄的灯光下，几团黑糊糊的影子在角落蠕动着，一个熟悉的声音正在小声呜咽。
Yellow light cuts across the room. Shadows twitch in the corners. A familiar voice whimpers faintly.

小威廉：呜呜呜……我要回家……
Little William: *whimper* Home. I just want to go home.

多萝西：没事的，我们会没事的……
Dorothy: It's alright, child. I'm here with you. We'll be fine.

安娜贝尔：小威廉！多萝西女士！
Annabelle: William! Ms. Dorothy!

安娜贝尔冲上前，紧紧抱住失散已久的家人。
Annabelle rushes forward, clutching her long-lost kin.

多萝西：别管我们……那边还有——
Dorothy: Don't! There's—

阴影从另一侧的角落中朝众人飞扑上来。
Shadows lunge from the opposite corner.

？？？：呜……嗷嗷——！！
???: Arrrrgh!

告死鸟：大家小心！
Corvus: Prepare for battle!

临时拘留室

感染的士兵：咳咳……
Infected Soldier: *coughing*

“士兵”倒在地上，双眼涨红，额角的血管如青黑色的菌丝般蔓延。
The soldier crumples, eyes bloodshot, veins crawling like creeping vines across his temple.

告死鸟：鲍里斯在什么地方？他绑走的那个小女孩呢？
Corvus: Where's Pyrrhos? Where did he take the girl?

上拉镜头
She seizes him by his bloody collar.

列车长提起他染血的衣领。

感染的士兵：仓……仓库，车站的仓库。那儿放了很多……很多……
Infected Soldier: W-Warehouse. At the station. Lots of ... Lots of them there ...

他吞吞吐吐，语焉不详，像是呛着血在口中。
He coughs, words slurred, gurgling.

告死鸟：他把你们都咬了，是吗？
Corvus: Did he do this to you?

感染的士兵：是的……
Infected Soldier: Yes ...

他轻轻喘着气，忽然露出一个诡魅的微笑。
He gasps, then smiles strangely.

感染的士兵：来不及了。
Infected Soldier: It's too late.

告死鸟：把话说清楚，什么来不及了……
Corvus: What? Speak up.

野树莓：啊……呃啊——！！
Rubuska: Ah ...

不远处忽然传来哭喊声。
A cry rises in the distance.

那是带着狂喜与疲惫的昂长声音，仿佛倦鸟归于巢穴，孤独的船只终于靠岸。
It is long, ecstatic, weary, like a bird to its nest, a ship finding shore.

艾玛：是野树莓！这声音……难道说……
Aima: It's Rubuska! That sound—Is she ...

感染的士兵：哈啊……你们来不及了，马上……
Infected Soldier: Argh. It's too late. Soon ...

感染的士兵：你们就要收获一个新的血食怪朋友了！哈哈哈……
Infected Soldier: Your friend will be a vampire! Hahahahaha ...

“士兵”笑得眼角淌出血泪来，喉咙里涌出一连串干瘪难解的呓语，仿佛另一种古老的存在占有了他全部的发声器官。
He laughs until bloody tears streak his face. In his throat, he releases a stream of broken whispers, another voice takes over.

感染的士兵：血流如注！你我皆为牲畜。
Infected Soldier: Gushing, seething, a torrent red. We, the cattle, a plague we spread.

感染的士兵：我们散播瘟疫的虫卵，将世界染成一片红色！
Infected Soldier: We are the spawn, the vampire's aide, to turn this earth a crimson shade.

感染的士兵：然后，“暴雨”将至……
Infected Soldier: The "Storm" forms as it did before.

感染的士兵：永不复还！永不复还！
Infected Soldier: No wars, no conflict—nevermore!

枪声响起，血花四溅。
A gunshot. Blood sprays.

放下
Corvus lowers her weapon, her stitched face grave.

列车长收起枪，表情是前所未有的凝重。

阿不思诺：连军队都已经……难怪那些怪物像蟑螂一样到处都是……
Arbuthnot: Ah. He's even turned his own army. It's no wonder these Infected are crawlin' all over the place.

塞梅尔维斯：“暴雨”将至……
Semmelweis: "The 'Storm' forms ..."

调查员蹲下身，将士兵的尸首仔细检查了一遍。
She crouches, inspecting the corpse with an investigator's eye.

塞梅尔维斯：原来如此。从刚才开始，我就一直觉得很奇怪。这些家伙从感染到发疯、死去的时间太快了，完全不符合已知的潜伏期规律。
Semmelweis: Something's been off since the beginning. The symptoms have taken hold too rapidly. There has never been a recorded instance of the infection spreading so fast.

塞梅尔维斯：他们的血管几乎都是爆胀开的，瞳孔被扩张到看不见虹膜，像是经历了某种人为加速的催化反应。
Semmelweis: Look here. Burst veins, pupils so dilated they almost cover the entire iris. The infection's been accelerated.

塞梅尔维斯：换句话说，这很可能不是自然生成的感染种，而是转化失败后的产物……
Semmelweis: In other words, these are no regular Infected. They're the failed product of a different kind of transformation.

告死鸟：事情一件一件解决。
Corvus: One task at a time.

告死鸟：走吧。先去找野树莓。
Corvus: Come. We need to find Rubuska.

数分钟前
Moments earlier ...

鲍里斯：所以，你的回答是？
Pyrrhos: Well? What do you say?

野树莓：我接受。
Rubuska: Yes.

鲍里斯：很好……我知道你会答应的。
Pyrrhos: Very good. I knew you'd come to your senses.

血食怪得到了他预料之中的答案，满意地笑了起来。
Satisfied with the answer, he offers a sharp, beastly smile.

鲍里斯：来吧。接受我的馈赠，脱去这副朽烂的肉身。
Pyrrhos: Come child. It's time to leave the ugly trappings of mortality behind you.

鲍里斯：然后，在属于我们血脉相连的新世界里——
Pyrrhos: Once we have the same blood pulsing through our veins ...

鲍里斯：保护任何你想保护的人。
Pyrrhos: We will build a new world, united in death.

图
This is the "bloodline" she has longed for.

那曾是她日思夜想的“血脉”。

野树莓：妈妈，爸爸，小尼古拉……
Rubuska: Мама, Dad, Kolyo.

是她童年生活的回响。
An echo of her childhood.

野树莓：保护我的亲族……
Rubuska: I'll protect you.

她仅存的信念。
Tugging at the shreds of her surviving faith.

野树莓：直到永远。
Rubuska: Till the end of time.

下一秒，阴影如漆黑的潮水涌出。
The next second, shadows surge like a black tide.

鲍里斯：嗯？影子？
Pyrrhos: Hm? A shadow?

黑

视频

鲍里斯：呃啊——！！
Pyrrhos: Uggh!

鲍里斯：你……为什么……
Pyrrhos: You ... Why?

野树莓：我当然想成为血食怪。
Rubuska: I want to be a vampire more than anything I've ever wanted.

野树莓：一个能用自己的力量做些什么的、能够让大家躲在我翅膀下的血食怪。
Rubuska: To have the power to save the people I love from death.

野树莓：一个强大的、可以保护大家的血食怪……
Rubuska: To be the one to protect and provide.

野树莓：而不是成为你这样的坏家伙！不是红眼睛、尖牙，以及你施舍的虚假的强大！
Rubuska: But I never want to be like you! I may have red eyes and fangs, but I don't want to lie and manipulate to get what I want!

鲍里斯：唔！！
Pyrrhos: Ugh!

野树莓：渴求死亡？我早就不那么想了。因为……他们希望我活着。
Rubuska: Heh. Did you really think I'd just surrender? That I'd take the easy way out? My family wants me to live.

野树莓：所以，我会活着，直到硝烟散尽，月亮消失，火焰被雨水熄灭，最后一朵报春花在斯特兰贾的山林里盛开又凋谢……
Rubuska: So, I'll live, damn it! Live until the smoke clears and the sky turns blue again, till the rain puts out the fires and the primroses bloom in the forests of Strandzha!

野树莓：直到我的朋友们平安地老去，全都长出白发和皱纹，亲族又苏醒过来……
Rubuska: I'll live till my friends grow old and gray and wrinkly, till my family comes back!

野树莓：我都将活着！
Rubuska: I'll live! We'll all live!

野树莓：而你……滚回你的坟墓里去吧！
Rubuska: And you—you will rot in your grave!

野树莓：坏东西！
Rubuska: You wretched bastard!

关视频
The true vampire convulses on the floor, his chest heaving like an old bellows.

军官抽搐着倒在地上，呼吸如老旧的风箱断断续续。

野树莓：做到了……你做到了，野树莓。
Rubuska: I did it. I killed him.

野树莓：你做到了……
Rubuska: It's over.

女孩瘫软地坐在地上，心跳一声大过一声。
Rubuska settles on the floor, feeling her heart pounding louder and louder.

野树莓：很好……我得赶紧找到大伙儿，把这里发生的一切都告诉他们……
Rubuska: Have to get back to the train. Have to tell them.

女孩匆忙起身，踉跄着朝门口跑去——她知道，她的朋友们还在等她。
She scrambles back up and staggers toward the door. She knows her friends are still waiting.

“砰——！”
*sound of attacking*

来不及发出一声呼喊，女孩瘦弱的身躯在空中划过一道弧线，随后狠狠坠地。
Before she can cry out, her body is flung through the air and slams to the ground.

消特效

鲍里斯：呵呵……又一个把传说当真的孩子。
Pyrrhos: Heh. Don't tell me you believe those bedtime stories?

军官不知何时又站了起来，脸上带着一丝近乎扭曲的微笑。
Pyrrhos stands, his face twisted into a grotesque look of sinister joy.

野树莓：不……你不是应该……
Rubuska: How? You-You should've ...

鲍里斯：说实话，听你那番蠢得令人发笑的正义宣言，简直比被钉在木桩上还要痛苦。
Pyrrhos: Died? *tut* Don't be absurd. Listening to that silly little speech was more painful than any stake to the chest.

鲍里斯：木桩、圣水、大蒜……让我猜猜看，还有什么？
Pyrrhos: Let me guess, you brought holy water and garlic, too?

他走到女孩身前，轻轻一挥手，女孩的脖颈便被无形的黑影缠绕。扼住咽喉的影子收紧、再收紧。
He looms over the girl, dismissing her attempt with a wave of his hand.An unseen shadow coils around her throat, tightening, then tightening again.

鲍里斯：很遗憾，那些传说、故事……全都是假的。就连你也是个假血食怪。
Pyrrhos: Those legends were merely that—naught but childish forgeries, just like you, little "vampire."

野树莓：不……
Rubuska: No ...

鲍里斯：……我还以为我们本该有所共鸣，这才在你身上浪费了太多时间。
Pyrrhos: Oh, what a waste of time you turned out to be. I truly believed you might share my vision.

鲍里斯：没想到你也是如此浅薄，令人发笑……
Pyrrhos: But, alas, you're just as narrow-minded as the rest of them.

鲍里斯：既然如此，那就祝你死后也能从棺材里复生，成为那个独一无二的血食怪……
Pyrrhos: I suppose it's time you found your place in the dirt. If you're lucky, someone might bring you back someday, then you can act out your little "noble-hearted vampire" charade once more.

意识渐渐模糊。
Her vision blurs.

月亮、鲜血、墓园……那些组成她整个童年生活的事物，如今都在她眼前坍倒成了一片废墟。
The moon, streaks of blood, the cemetery ... everything that once made up her childhood crumbles to ruin.

就像她曾经想要成为血食怪的愿望一样。
And with it, her dreams of becoming a vampire.

她、她有影子！
Look! Her shadow—it's moving!

我知道你就是真的血食怪，我说得对吗？
You're a real vampire, right, Rubuska?

野树莓：不是……假的……
Rubuska: It's not a lie.

闭眼
She closes her eyes, arms slack at her sides, bloodlike tears trailing down her face.

消特效
The door bursts open from a weighty kick.

她闭上眼，手臂软软垂在身旁，眼角流出血一样的眼泪。
Footsteps ring out, steady, strong, then faster, faster.

门忽然被一脚踹开。
A hail of bullets tears through the vampire's shoulder.

沉稳的、有力的脚步声响起，然后越来越急、越来越快。

子弹毫不留情地穿过军官的肩胛。

鲍里斯：唔——！！
Pyrrhos: Ugh!

鲍里斯松开手，瞬间化作漆黑的阴影，隐匿回夜色中了。
Pyrrhos releases her before melting into shadow.

空气再度回归胸腔，视网膜上逐渐映出一个高大而模糊的身影。
Air floods back into her lungs. A familiar tall figure comes into focus.

告死鸟：野树莓。
Corvus: Rubuska.

她蹲下身，与女孩眼神平视，露出如释重负的笑意。
She crouches to reach the girl; glimpses of relief and concern pass over her patchwork face.

告死鸟：我们找到你了。
Corvus: Finally. We've found you.

TMW-19 “我们” / Here, Together

起步
My blood flows across the city, as fresh from a battlefield,

我的血没过城区，犹如没过决斗场，
It rises as the tide, seeping into the empty gaps between cobblestones,

将铺路石变成小岛，向前流淌，
Quenching the parched mouths of man and beast,

抚慰每个创造物的饥渴，
And engulfing the world in its sanguine embrace.

将整个大自然染成一片血红。
— Charles Baudelaire, The Fountain of Blood

——波德莱尔《血泉》
解上下黑边

孩童们：野树莓！
Children: Rubuska!

人们迫不及待地涌到野树莓的身边，将她团团围住。
A surge of friendly faces rushes to Rubuska's side, surrounding her.

野树莓：大家都来了……我以为，你们再也不会理我了……
Rubuska: What-What're you doing here? I-I thought you'd never wanna speak to me again.

安娜贝尔：别这么说，野树莓姐姐！我们喜欢你、亲近你，并不因为你是血食怪。
Annabelle: That's not true. We like you, even if you aren't a real vampire.

小威廉：刚才我们在窗户外面都看见了，你把木桩插在了那个坏蛋的胸口上，你比血食怪都要厉害……
Little William: We saw it all! Whack! You put a big old stake right through the monster's chest! So you're not a vampire. You're even stronger!

一张张热切的脸围拢在少女身边，将她的脸颊也烤得通红。
The crowd closes in on Rubuska, their warmth flushing her cheeks red.

野树莓：……
Rubuska: ...

野树莓：谢谢你们。
Rubuska: Thank you.

鲍里斯：呵呵……真是感人的团聚！不如大家一起坐下来，喝点什么？
Pyrrhos: Ah, the joy of reunion. How very touching. In fact, why don't we drink to it?

角落里忽然响起熟悉的、阴恻恻的声音，将所有人的目光一并吸引了过去。
From the corner comes a sinister voice, drawing eyes and muzzles in its direction.

塞梅尔维斯：这是……
Semmelweis: Those are …

鲍里斯坐在尸山上
无数尸体堆积成一座令人作呕的血肉山丘。
Corpses by the dozens piled high into a nauseating hill of flesh.

山丘的地质表层已经腐烂得不成样子，露出半透明的青灰肉层，肠子与内脏一团乱麻般挂在外面，鲜血自山峰蜿蜒而下，泥沼一般黏稠。
The surface layer rots away, exposing pale-gray sinew, entrails dangling in tangles, blood oozing down like a sticky mire.

鲍里斯便是坐在这座山丘上方，悠闲得像是坐进了柔软的沙发。
Pyrrhos sits atop the mound, lounging.

告死鸟：列车上的乘客，还有士兵……
Corvus: The bodies of the passengers, and the soldiers too.

鲍里斯：你的想象力还是一如既往的糟糕啊，伊格丽卡。
Pyrrhos: Is that all you see? *tut* You never did have an eye for detail, Iglika.

他脸上笑意加深。
His sharp grin deepens.

鲍里斯：你怎么知道这里只有乘客和士兵呢？
Pyrrhos: Look closer. Your Foundation friend might find a little surprise.

塞梅尔维斯：……！
Semmelweis: ...!

调查员眼尖地在山丘中找到了熟悉的制服和标记。
The investigator spots familiar checkered uniforms and marks among the heap.

塞梅尔维斯：这是，七十七分队的人，我的……我曾经的同僚们。
Semmelweis: Squad 77. All of them.

鲍里斯：是啊。我嫌他们碍事，早在他们上车前就一次性解决了。
Pyrrhos: Indeed. I worried they'd prove irksome if not dealt with, so I handled them before they even boarded the train.

暗红的眼眸轻描淡写地掠过调查员。
Dark red eyes sweep past her with casual indifference.

鲍里斯：没想到还漏了一个。
Pyrrhos: Though it seems one managed to slip her way on board.

告死鸟：为什么？
Corvus: Why, Pyrrhos? I need a reason.

鲍里斯：……
Pyrrhos: ...

鲍里斯：因为我对这一切都感到厌倦了，伊格丽卡。
Pyrrhos: If you must ask, Iglika, it's because I've run out of patience.

鲍里斯：无尽的战争、流浪、痛苦……那些愚蠢的人类和他们无休无止的征伐游戏。
Pyrrhos: People and their endless games, wars one after another, and following it—exile and despair.

鲍里斯：你知道这一切的根源是什么吗？
Pyrrhos: And do you know where it all began?

他拎起垂在身侧的一只柔软无力的手臂，任由鲜血顺着肌肉的弧度汩汩流下。
He hoists a limp arm; blood streams down it like a red river.

鲍里斯：血。我们脚下的土地流淌着太多不同的血液。
Pyrrhos: Blood. Too many bloodlines are bound to this land, each serving their own desires.

鲍里斯：无法融合，无法消失，只能相互侵蚀、撕咬，彼此仇恨，在这片被诅咒的土地上生生不息地纠缠着。
Pyrrhos: For centuries, they have nipped and snapped at each other, unable to cooperate, unwilling to unite, never satisfied with peace.

鲍里斯：为了打破这一切，我尝试了各种方法……包括加入解放阵线。
Pyrrhos: I tried to break them free from this cycle—did everything I could, including joining the Liberation Front.

告死鸟：你本可以选择告诉我这些。
Corvus: You could've told me this. We could've talked about it.

鲍里斯：这没什么好说的，伊格丽卡。
Pyrrhos: Oh, I could have, Iglika, but why use words when it is already clear to see?

鲍里斯：你只需要站在那里，闭上双眼，感受着脚下土地哭声一样的脉动，就什么都明白了。
Pyrrhos: Don't you hear it? When you close your eyes at night, don't you feel the distant tremors of their cries?

鲍里斯：后来，在你离开之后……在曾经的同志们都不再活动之后。
Pyrrhos: After you left the Liberation Front, after all others had forgotten how to even speak of our cause ...

鲍里斯：那位来自远方的歌者听到了我的祈祷，为我指引了一条新的道路……
Pyrrhos: A voice came to me. A voice from the heavens. She heard my prayers and showed me a new path.

他一手指向身后堆叠的尸体们，眼神炽热。
He gestures toward the mound of bodies, eyes blazing.

鲍里斯：一条让我们血脉相连的道路！所有人都成为血食怪，没有隔阂与冲突，只有彼此的理解与共鸣——
Pyrrhos: A path of unity! Where all would share the same blood, the same interest, the same goal.

“砰——！”

枪声响起的瞬间，军官原地消失，子弹只来得及击中几只蝙蝠的虚影。
At the crack of gunfire, Pyrrhos vanishes, the shot clipping only a few fluttering bats.

蝙蝠冲脸

下一秒，他又悄无声息地出现在告死鸟背后。
In only a heartbeat, he reappears soundlessly behind Corvus.

鲍里斯：第二枪。这可真叫人伤心啊，伊格丽卡。
Pyrrhos: Another bullet. You wound me in more ways than one, Iglika.

告死鸟：你错得离谱，鲍里斯。你以为血脉真的能终结一切冲突？
Corvus: You've lost your way, Pyrrhos. Do you truly think blood is to blame for all of this?

告死鸟：人与人之间冲突永远不会结束。它不仅来自血脉，也来自误解、恐惧……甚至是爱。
Corvus: It's one cause of conflict, yes, but so are misunderstanding, fear, even love.

告死鸟：血脉只是其中很小的部分。将一切都归结于此，这是彻头彻尾的逃避。
Corvus: To blame everything on bloodlines means choosing a simple lie over a complicated truth.

鲍里斯：呵呵……你还是那么容易被表象迷惑。误解，恐惧，爱——这一切都源于我们内心的本能。
Pyrrhos: Haha, you haven't thought deeply enough then, dear Iglika. Look at these causes, examine them at the root, and what do you find, hm? Human nature.

鲍里斯：而驱使这本能的钥匙，正是血脉。
Pyrrhos: And our nature, old friend, is set by our blood.

血食怪站在血肉铸就的山丘前，张开双臂，眼神也变得炽热。
The vampire spreads his arms before the hill of flesh, his maddened eyes ablaze with baleful violence.

鲍里斯：想象一下，伊格丽卡！想象一个没有流血的世界。
Pyrrhos: Listen to me! Imagine a world with no bloodshed,

鲍里斯：当所有人都摆脱了自己的肉体局限，平等地生活在永生之中……
Pyrrhos: where everyone is free of mortal weakness and given infinite time to enjoy the pleasures of this earth.

鲍里斯：每一滴血都将是彼此之间的纽带，所有的心跳与呼吸，将为同一个目标而存在。
Pyrrhos: Our shared bloodline serving as a bond, not a line of division, so that all our hearts might beat as one.

鲍里斯：无论你身在何方，肤色如何，血脉都会将我们连成一个庞大的家族，永远不再有敌人。
Pyrrhos: Race, color, creed—all would melt away in the face of this great family we will create.

鲍里斯：而这，不正是我们所希望的吗？
Pyrrhos: Was that not your vision once, Iglika?

告死鸟：一个没有流血的世界？这里的血已经够多了。
Corvus: You want a world without bloodshed? Hah. Ironic. Your methods tell a different story.

告死鸟：看看这满地的狼藉吧，鲍里斯。你正在创造另一种形式的战争，而非终结它。
Corvus: Look around you, Pyrrhos. You're starting a war, not ending one.

告死鸟：你根本不在乎所谓的“理解与共鸣”。你只是一个吃不到糖，就想拉它一起坠入地狱的孩子。
Corvus: Unity, really? Things didn't go your way, so now you'll drag us all to hell along with you.

鲍里斯：……
Pyrrhos: ...

月光驱散了所有华丽的矫饰，在血食怪脸上降下苍白的帷幕。
Moonlight strips away all pretense, casting a pallid veil across his face.

鲍里斯：你永远都知道该怎么伤害我，并对此毫无顾忌。
Pyrrhos: You always did know how to use those words like a scalpel.

鲍里斯：我不该对你有所期待的，伊格丽卡。
Pyrrhos: *sigh* I was a fool to think you'd stand with me again.

他轻叹一口气，眼神落在另一侧的乘务员身上。
He sighs, turning his eyes with strange softness toward the stewardess.

鲍里斯：艾玛。
Pyrrhos: Aima.

鲍里斯：来吧，到我身边。接下来会是一场恶战，你是我的血亲，我不想伤到你。
Pyrrhos: Come. This battle will be fierce, and I won't allow my blood to come to harm.

塞梅尔维斯：血亲？原来……
Semmelweis: His blood? She's ...

调查员的目光在乘务员和列车长之间流连，离散的线索在她脑内串联了起来。
Semmelweis darts her eyes from face to face, loose threads knitting in her mind.

被唤及名字的乘务员下意识向前一步。所有人的目光都集中在了这个从来都只会默默跟随的女孩身上。
Aima steps forward as every eye turns to her.

艾玛：鲍里斯叔叔……
Aima: Uncle Pyrrhos ...

野树莓：艾玛……！
Rubuska: Aima!

听见身后的呼唤，女孩停下脚步。
A voice calls out from behind, and she halts.

她回望身后的人们，红色围巾毛茸茸的触感划过她的脸颊。
She looks back, the woolly red scarf brushing her cheek.

于是她攥紧围巾，缓慢而坚定地直视军官的眼睛。
She grips it tight, slowly and firmly locking with her uncle's eyes.

艾玛：对不起，叔叔。你是我的血亲，是我一直心怀感激的人……但我不能过去。
Aima: Forgive me, Uncle. I love you dearly, and I'm grateful for all you've done. But I can't.

艾玛：“多瑙黎明号”很好，大家也很好……我、我不希望你伤害大家……
Aima: You know how much the "Danube Dawn" means to me. Please, stop. I don't want anyone else to get hurt.

她回到了属于她的人群中间。
She steps back to stand proud and defiant among her people.

鲍里斯：我的血亲……连你也要背叛我吗？还有你们……
Pyrrhos: Blood of my blood. Of all people, you choose to stand against me. And you ...

男人、女人、老人、孩子……人们隔着不远不近的距离看着他，眼里充斥着恐惧、厌恶和鄙夷。
Men, women, the old, the young ... each stands ready from a measured distance, brimming with fear, disgust, and scorn.

这些眼神砌成一堵沉默的高墙，将他隔绝在外。高墙之下，是一道不可逾越的鸿沟，一切解释和辩驳都将在其中湮灭殆尽。
They build a silent wall, cutting him off. Beneath it yawns a chasm no words could ever cross.

鲍里斯：呵呵……你们看着我的眼神，就好像我是什么不可理喻的怪物一样。
Pyrrhos: Hahahahaha. You look at me like I'm some kind of monster!

他神经质地笑了起来，随后深吸一口气，又恢复了以往的平静。
He laughs with a twitch, then inhales deeply and resumes his malevolent composure.

鲍里斯：我早就明白了，根本不存在所谓的“理解与共鸣”。
Pyrrhos: Well, I tried, but I always knew preaching would only get me so far.

鲍里斯：暴力、宗教、和平谈判，甚至血脉……一切手段到最后都会显得滑稽又可笑，根本撼动不了这片土地与生俱来的、无可救药的分裂与堕落。
Pyrrhos: Violence, religion, politics, marriage ... Our predecessors sought every means to unite us, but greed has always been stronger.

鲍里斯：我也曾幻想过，某一天我们能抛开仇恨，联合起来。但是，历史和今天给了我们什么？
Pyrrhos: Still, I was naive enough to hope we'd finally put aside our differences.

鲍里斯：废墟、血染的战场，在故乡的每一块石板下，都埋着无数的悲剧与血债。呵呵……呵呵呵……
Pyrrhos: Ruins, battlefields, countless headstones, and beneath every one, a blood debt unpaid. Hah ... Hahaha ...

鲍里斯：伊格丽卡，有一件事你说对了。
Pyrrhos: Perhaps, in the end, you were right, Iglika. If I can't have what I want ...

他低下头，慢慢抽出裸露在胸口外的那截木桩。
He reaches to pull out the wooden stake lodged in his chest.

肉色的蝠翼从他的背脊破裂而出，缓缓张开，遮住了窗外朦胧的月色。
Fleshy bat wings sprout from his back, spreading wide to block out the hazy moonlight outside the window.

鲍里斯：现在我只想拉着这片土地，还有这片土地上的人们一起……
Pyrrhos: Then I will drag every single man, woman, and child.

鲍里斯：坠入地狱。
Pyrrhos: To hell.

怪物“鲍里斯”发出一声尖锐的鸣叫，赤红的双目血流如注。
The monster lets out a shrill cry, eyes streaming blood.

叫声如同一道致命的信号，在夜空中扩散开来，吸引了无数在外游荡的感染种们。
The sound spreads through the night like a deadly signal, drawing hordes of the Infected in from the dark.

感染的乘客：血流如注……血流如注！
Infected Passenger: Gushing, seething!

感染的士兵：永不复还！
Infected Soldier: Nevermore!

塞梅尔维斯：那些感染种似乎受到了鲍里斯的感召，全都涌过来了。
Semmelweis: The Infected are swarming. He must have called for them.

告死鸟：拿起武器，作好迎战准备！
Corvus: Incoming! Weapons ready!

告死鸟：鲍里斯……今天，我会亲手用子弹贯穿你的心脏。
Corvus: Pyrrhos. I will put a bullet through your heart myself.

血色墓园

村民Ⅰ：喂，还活着吗？
Villager I: Is the beast still breathing? Hey, you!

青年鲍里斯：……
Young Pyrrhos: ...

村民Ⅰ：这家伙可真邪门儿啊。被钉在木桩上晒了一个星期太阳，血都快流干了，还是没死。
Villager I: Devil take him, he's still twitching, even after we staked him and left him under the sun for a week. He ought to be dust by now.

村民Ⅰ：不愧是纯种的血食怪，上一个才三天就没了。
Villager I: The last one didn't last but three days. This one must be of purer blood. They say those are stronger.

青年鲍里斯：为……为什么……
Young Pyrrhos: W-Why ...

青年鲍里斯：我从来没有……伤害过……
Young Pyrrhos: I never ... hurt ... any of you ...

村民Ⅱ：哪来那么多为什么？你是血食怪，所以该死。
Villager II: Haha. What's that? Why? 'Cause you're a vampire, a monster.

村民Ⅱ：人在剿灭害虫的时候，还会一个一个区分它们的好赖吗？
Villager II: What, so we've got to wait until you've drained someone dry before we put you down, do we?

他被阳光刺得再也抬不起眼，只能徒劳地缩着脖子、低着头。
The sunlight burns him until he can no longer raise his eyes. He shrinks his neck, attempting to turn his head in vain.

血食怪的狩猎向来血腥。人类的、牲畜的、血食怪的血在地上杂乱地流淌着，又在末端合成了一条小小的溪流，洇湿了他的足趾。
A vampire's hunt is a bloody one, as always. Human, beast, vampire—blood spills in a tangled mess across the ground, merging into a stream that soaks his toes.

一阵风轻轻吹起，捎带来遥远的歌声。
A breeze stirs, carrying a distant song.

歌声空灵而缥缈，仿佛从一个庞大而无垠的空间内飘来，再编织成复杂的网，温柔地上下起伏着。
The song is ethereal and light, as if drifting from a vast, boundless space, weaving into a comforting net that rises and falls.

如歌的声音：绝望。
Sing-Song Voice: Despair.

如歌的声音：这是最纯粹的情感。它剖开你的防备，将你从庸常的束缚中解脱出来，让你变得更加……完美。
Sing-Song Voice: The purest of emotions. It lifts the weight of fear, frees you from the constraints of mundanity, and brings you one step closer to perfection.

青年鲍里斯：谁……？
Young Pyrrhos: Who ...?

他闻到、听到干净而凉爽的风声。
He smells and hears the crisp, cool wind.

如歌的声音：帮你实现愿望的存在。
Sing-Song Voice: I am your wish-maker.

青年鲍里斯：……
Young Pyrrhos: ...

青年鲍里斯：“愿望”……我的愿望……
Young Pyrrhos: "Wish" ... My wish ...

如歌的声音：不用说出口，我已经与你同感共情。
Sing-Song Voice: You need not speak it; the wind has whispered it to me.

如歌的声音：我将帮助你成就你自己。你将拥有许多的家人与同类，无需再感到孤单。
Sing-Song Voice: I shall help you achieve greatness, and you will be surrounded by family and friends, never to be alone again.

如歌的声音：而这一切，是为了让你变得更加完美——完美的绝望，完美的激情。
Sing-Song Voice: And all this will bring you ever closer to perfection, for you will be awoken to your emotions, to perfect passion.

青年鲍里斯：家人……没错，我希望……
Young Pyrrhos: Family. Yes, I ...

青年鲍里斯：我们互相依存，彼此折磨……直到永远。
Young Pyrrhos: I want them ... With me ... evermore.

车站仓库

鲍里斯：直到……永远……
Pyrrhos: Ever ... more ...

怪物退回人形，像一只幼小的虫蛹缩在角落，不住喘息。
The monster shrinks back into human form, like a withered cocoon trembling in the corner, gasping for breath.

他的脖颈几近撕裂，从中汩汩涌出暗红的、如泉水般的鲜血。
His neck is torn open, dark blood flowing out like a spring.

鲍里斯：伊格丽卡。
Pyrrhos: Iglika.

告死鸟：……我在。
Corvus: I'm here.

昔日的战友沉默地站在他面前。他们之间隔着不远不近的距离，却早已是咫尺天涯。
His old comrade stands before him in silence. The space between them is not far, and yet it spans a fathomless deep.

鲍里斯：都……结束了吗？
Pyrrhos: Is it over?

告死鸟：都结束了，鲍里斯。
Corvus: It is, Pyrrhos.

闭眼
视频
列车长举枪对准昔日的战友。

鲍里斯：还记得解放阵线的口号吗？
Pyrrhos: Do you remember our old rallying cry?

鲍里斯：“联合与希望”。真是讽刺啊，看看我们现在……
Pyrrhos: "In hope, we stand as one." Hmph. Yet here we are.

鲍里斯：现在你还相信它吗？
Pyrrhos: Do you still believe in it?

告死鸟：我从未怀疑。事实上……我无时无刻不在感受着它。
Corvus: I've never doubted it. I still feel the power of those words.

告死鸟：就在今夜，我比以往都要更加强烈地感受到了它的存在。
Corvus: And tonight, I feel its presence stronger than ever.

不在杀戮的战场上，也不在空洞的宣言里。它活在每一个瞬间，就在此时此刻。
<speed=2>Not on the battlefield, nor in a field of slaughter, nor in hollow declarations. It lives in every moment, here and now.

告死鸟：它一直都在。我们也一直都在。
Corvus: It lives inside each of us.

鲍里斯：……
Pyrrhos: ...

鲍里斯：看来你已经找到了，伊格丽卡。是我走得太远，受了不该有的蛊惑……
Pyrrhos: Then you've found the right path. And I-I've strayed too far.

鲍里斯：动手吧，伊格丽卡。
Pyrrhos: Go on, Iglika. Do it.

鲍里斯：祝你能……看见理想实现的那一天。
Pyrrhos: I hope you live to see that dream come true.

关视频
车站仓库

告死鸟：你的战争已经结束了，鲍里斯。至于我们的——
Corvus: You've had your war, Pyrrhos. But ours goes on.

告死鸟：它尚未终结。但我相信，我们会等来那一天。
Corvus: Still, the end will come in time.

也许不是今天，也许不是明天。
Maybe not today. Maybe not tomorrow.

但终有一代人会拒绝举起枪口，拒绝用仇恨换取短暂的胜利。
But one day, a generation will refuse to raise their guns, refuse to trade blood for fleeting victory.

等到那时，多瑙河会再度平静流淌，贝尔格莱德的废墟上，也会有新的丁香花盛开。
When that day comes, the Danube will flow in peace once more, and lilacs will bloom again over the ruins of Belgrade.

告死鸟：等到那时……我们会在曾是战场的原野上，为千万逝者敲响钟声。
Corvus: When it does, we'll ring the peace bell so loud that all those who rest in the earth hear it.

列车长收起枪，干脆利落地转身离去。
She lowers her weapon, turns on her heel, and walks away.

告死鸟：永别了，鲍里斯。
Corvus: Farewell, Pyrrhos.

TMW-20 长夜漫漫 / Comes the Dawning Light

草原春

艾玛：叔叔，我们什么时候到呀……艾玛的头，好晕……
Aima: Uncle Pyrrhos, how much farther do we need to go? I'm feeling a little dizzy.

鲍里斯：很快了……翻过这座山脉，我们就能看到边界了。
Pyrrhos: Not long now. The border's just on the other side of the mountain. We'll be there soon.

鲍里斯：然后我们会渡过莱切河，瓦伦缇娜小姐居住的城堡就在那边……
Pyrrhos: Then we'll cross the Lech to Ms. Valentina's castle.

鲍里斯：她会治好你的。
Pyrrhos: And she'll cure you. She'll make things right.

林中深处

艾玛：叔叔，瓦伦缇娜小姐……真的会帮我们吗？
Aima: But how do you know she'll help?

鲍里斯：她会的，艾玛。血食怪不会抛弃有着相同血脉的族人，这是我们的责任。
Pyrrhos: I just know, Aima. A vampire always stands by her people. It's in our blood.

艾玛：不会抛弃……相同血脉……
Aima: In our blood.

鲍里斯：没错，艾玛。
Pyrrhos: You'll do well to remember that, Aima.

鲍里斯：血脉是我们最坚固的纽带。
Pyrrhos: There is no bond stronger than blood.

艾玛：叔叔……
Aima: Uncle ...

艾玛将木质的套娃轻轻放在地上。
Aima gently sets the wooden matryoshka down.

套娃脸上依旧挂着不变的微笑，仿佛还记得多瑙河沿岸的风、列车的晃动，还有她一路走来的低语与笑声。
Its painted smile is unchanged, as if it still remembers the winds along the Danube, the swaying of the train, the murmurs and laughter of her journey.

如今，它的旅程终于结束了。
Now its journey has come to an end.

它该回到属于它的地方了——一个没有隔阂、没有流离的世界。
It should return to where it belongs, a world without walls, without exile.

或许，它会在那里找到属于自己的答案。
Perhaps there it will find its answer.

艾玛：叔叔……再见。
Aima: Goodbye.

车站仓库

感染的士兵：呜呜……嗷……
Infected Soldier: Ooogh ... Argh ...

失去了首领的怪物们不安地游荡着，咆哮声穿透了寂静的雪夜。
Their leader gone, the monsters prowl restlessly, their roars ripping through the silent snowbound night.

仓库内，劫后余生的人们聚在一起，商讨着下一步的行动。
Inside the warehouse, the survivors gather to plan their next move.

塞梅尔维斯：信号恢复了。我已经联络了基金会，他们会派人过来。
Semmelweis: Signal's back. I've contacted the Foundation; they're sending reinforcements immediately.

塞梅尔维斯：不过看样子，恐怕增援来之前，这些感染种便会突破这儿。
Semmelweis: But by the looks of it, the Infected will get to us before the backup arrives.

告死鸟：虽然鲍里斯已经死了，但看起来这些感染种还处在失控的状态中。
Corvus: It seems Pyrrhos's death hasn't had any effect on them. They're still coming.

告死鸟：甚至可以说……他们变得更加危险了。
Corvus: Perhaps, if anything, they seem more dangerous.

调查员看向仓库不断颤动的大门，几不可闻地叹了一口气。
Semmelweis holds a glance on the shuddering doors of the warehouse, letting out an audible sigh.

塞梅尔维斯：……
Semmelweis: ...

塞梅尔维斯：但愿今后我不会再和血食怪扯上关系，这是最后一次。
Semmelweis: After this, mark my words, this is the last time I take on a mission with vampires.

观察着现状，雅科夫看了看手中的武器，皱起了眉。
Watching the situation unfold, Yakov looks down at the weapon in his hands, frowning.

雅科夫：可我们已经耗尽了弹药，又该怎么从这些危险的家伙中突围？
Yakov: We're running out of bullets. What do we do?

告死鸟：……我想，这或许是一个一网打尽的好机会。
Corvus: We have to take them down. All at once.

雅科夫：一网打尽？你想怎么做？
Yakov: All at once? How?

告死鸟：找个宽敞的地方，将那些家伙聚集在一起，剩下的就交给“它们”来办。
Corvus: Draw them into a room, and leave the rest to those.

列车长指向仓库角落里标记着“易燃易爆”的沉重货物。
She points toward a number of heavy crates bearing an ominous marking: "flammable."

塞梅尔维斯：刚才我也注意到了。如果我没猜错的话，这里面装着的是炸药吧。
Semmelweis: I noticed them when we entered, too. Explosives, I presume?

告死鸟：没错。这是军队之前从一伙民兵的基地里搜剿的。
Corvus: Yes. Pyrrhos mentioned having seized them from a militia camp.

阿不思诺：听起来可行，但前提是我们能将分散的感染种引到一处……
Arbuthnot: Sounds like a plan. But how do we draw 'em close enough?

索尼娅：真是荒谬！难道你打算给他们每人发一封邀请函，让他们一起来听音乐会吗？
Sonya: This isn't a plan; this is madness! Do you seriously believe they'll simply saunter into a building as if it were some kind of concert?

野树莓：音乐会……对啊，确实可以让他们来听“音乐会”！
Rubuska: Concert? That's it! We'll play music! Lucky for us, I always carry my kaval with me.

女孩灵光一现，晃了晃手中的笛子。
Her ruby eyes sparkle with sudden inspiration as she lifts her flute.

野树莓：就像故事里说的那样——感染种丧失了神志，只会本能地被声音吸引。
Rubuska: In the old stories, when the Infected go loopy like this, they're easily attracted to loud noises.

野树莓：而卡瓦尔的笛声非常响亮，只要不是聋子都会被它吸引注意力的!
Rubuska: And my kaval—well, let's just say, if you've got ears, you'll hear it.

塞梅尔维斯：……确实符合基金会内部记载的资料，是个可行的方案。
Semmelweis: That matches with documentation I've read in the Foundation archives—a feasible solution.

塞梅尔维斯：所以，你决定好了吗？成为吸引感染种的诱饵。
Semmelweis: But that would make you the bait. Are you certain you can do it?

女孩握紧笛子，眼神无比坚定。
Rubuska grips her flute with determination.

野树莓：是的。
Rubuska: Of course.

拉伊哈：不，她还只是个孩子……
Reyhan: We can't; she's just a child.

安娜贝尔：我们也不同意！之前我们已经差点失去过你一次了……
Annabelle: Don't go, Rubuska. We nearly lost you once already.

女孩用力绞着手上的玩偶，眼眶和鼻头都红红的。
She squeezes her doll.

野树莓：放心吧，我跑得很快，那些慢吞吞的感染种根本追不上我。再说了……
Rubuska: Don't worry. I can handle it. I run fast. Those Infected won't get close. Besides ...

野树莓：我的笛声还能操控影子！到时候我会制造出好多影子一起满地乱跑，把他们都骗得团团转！
Rubuska: Me and my kaval can control shadows. I'll make a whole bunch of them as a distraction.

野树莓：很遗憾，这里没有比我更适合的人选了。
Rubuska: See, tell me, who else could pull that off?

人们纷纷摇头。几乎所有人脸上都浮现担忧与反对的神色，唯独一个人例外。
One by one, the others shake their heads. Worry and refusal are written across every face, save one.

告死鸟：不害怕吗？
Corvus: You're not afraid?

野树莓：说不害怕肯定是骗人的……
Rubuska: I'd be lying if I said no.

野树莓：可谁叫我是最强大的血食怪野树莓呢？大伙儿可都靠着我呢！
Rubuska: But I'm Rubuska, the all-powerful, the deathless! And you're all counting on me!

列车长点点头，脸上露出一丝理解的微笑。
Corvus nods, offering her a knowing smile.

告死鸟：去吧，我相信你，“朋友”。
Corvus: Then go. I believe in you, "old pal."

野树莓：放心，一定凯旋！
Rubuska: See you when this is all over!

她立正身体，朝列车长行了一个歪歪扭扭的军礼。列车长恍若未见，只转身朝其他人挥了挥手。
She straightens her back and salutes clumsily. Corvus pretends not to see, merely turning away and waving to the others.

告死鸟：剩下的人都跟我走，我们去布置“陷阱”。
Corvus: The rest of you, come with me. Time to set the trap.

告死鸟：务必将他们一网打尽。
Corvus: There is no room for failure.

雪还在慢慢下着。
Snow still falls.

感染的士兵：呜……嗷……
Infected Soldier: Ooh ... Argh ...

感染者穿行在大雪纷飞的夜里，步履沉重，仿佛在无尽寒冬中迷失的旅人。
Infected trudge through the whipping snow, moving step by heavy step.

野树莓：……
Rubuska: ...

女孩独自站在雪中，唯有手中的木笛陪伴着她。
The girl stands alone, her only companion the wooden flute in her hands.

感染的士兵：啊……
Infected Soldier: Arrah ...

一张张面孔从黑夜深处浮出，苍白的皮肤紧贴在骨架上，血管如干涸的河床般纵横交错。
Faces rise from the darkness, pale skin clinging to bone, veins etched across them like dry riverbeds.

它们使她想起另一张脸。

脸
And in them, she sees another face.

消失

野树莓：——！！
Rubuska: ...!

她退后了一步，却又再向前走了两步。
She steps back once, then forward twice.

野树莓：对不起，妈妈。我……
Rubuska: Mама, forgive me.

野树莓：我不会再逃跑了。
Rubuska: But I'm not running anymore.

女孩深吸一口气，然后又轻轻吹出。
The great Rubuska takes a deep breath. Lips meet the waiting flute.

先是几个笨拙的音符，紧接着一连串错落的和弦。渐渐地，和弦被编织起来，旋律在雪中流淌。
It starts with a few clumsy notes, followed by a jumble of uneven chords. But the chords soon weave together, and the melody resonates up through the biting cold.

感染的乘客：呜……啊啊啊……
Infected Passenger: Oooh ... Arraagh ...

那是柔和而寂寥的旋律，它曾伴随女孩走过硝烟散尽的战场、寂静的墓园和群山……
It is a soft, lonesome tune, one that once carried her through battlefields that had gone quiet, graveyards, and mountains.

视频
<speed=2>Through long years, she was the melody's only listener.

漫长的岁月里，她曾是这段旋律唯一的听众。
<speed=2>Back then, all she saw was silence stretching to the horizon and futures unseen.

那时候，眼前只有一望无际的寂静，和未曾目见的未来。
<speed=2>So she recited tale after tale of vampires.

于是，她幻想出一个又一个血食怪的故事……

“血食怪德古拉”：没错，我就是野树莓的祖先，穿刺公德古拉！
"Dracula the Vampire": Before you stands the forefather of young Rubuska—Dracula the Impaler!

“血食怪阿诺德”：我是野树莓的爷爷，荣耀而强大的初代埃杰什公爵！
"Arnold the Vampire": And I, her noble grandfather, the glorious First Duke of Arges!

“血食怪萨瓦诺维奇”：我是……
"Savonovic the Vampire": And I ...

长长的族谱在少女的编织下日渐复杂，成为她旅途中最亲密的伙伴。
<speed=2>That lineage, growing ever more tangled, became her closest companion on the road.

回过神来，孤独的她与那些故事一起，已经不知不觉走了很远。
<speed=2>When she comes to, she realizes just how far she has wandered.

野树莓：妈妈……！
Rubuska: Мама!

母亲：你已经走了这么远啊，我的孩子。
Mother: You've come so far, my Buska.

野树莓：是，是啊……
Rubuska: Yes, I have.

野树莓：我穿过了里拉山脉，渡过了斯特鲁玛河谷，沿着多瑙河一路走，一路看……
Rubuska: I crossed the Rila Mountains, waded through-through the Struma River, and traveled along the Danube.

野树莓：哦，对了！我还上了一趟列车……
Rubuska: Oh, I even rode a train!

母亲：听上去，这是一段幸福快乐的日子。
Mother: You sound happy, my dear girl.

野树莓：幸福……？
Rubuska: Happy?

母亲：风景、朋友，还有列车的鸣笛声……你说得那么认真，那么快乐。
Mother: Those sights you've seen, your new friends, the train. I can feel your joy.

野树莓：……
Rubuska: ...

原来，那些记忆早已在不知不觉间渗透进来，占据了原本属于死亡、坟墓与鲜血的角落。

远方笛声的曲调下落，尾音慢慢融化在阳光里。
<speed=2>In the fading flute's descent, the last note melts into the sunlight.

女孩仰起脸，仿佛再一次闻到了四月的风。
<speed=2>She tilts her face upward, as if catching the April wind once more.

野树莓：是的……我很幸福。
Rubuska: Yes, I am happy.

野树莓：我从未感到如此幸福过，妈妈。
Rubuska: Happier than I've been in a long time, Mама.

关视频

塞梅尔维斯：很好。那些感染种都被笛声吸引过来了。
Semmelweis: She's done it. The Infected are swarming together.

告死鸟：准备工作完成，炸药已就位。接下来……
Corvus: Explosives are in place. On my mark.

列车长朝着野树莓的方向挥了挥手。
Corvus waves toward Rubuska.

女孩立刻会意，悄无声息地拉远与影子的距离，直到彻底远离感染种的包围。
She instantly understands, slipping out from the shadows until she is free of the Infected's encirclement.

一切准备就绪。列车长收敛眉目，发出最后的指令。
All is ready. The conductress narrows her gaze and gives the final order.

告死鸟：三、二、一——
Corvus: Three, two, one.

爆炸

艾玛：请大家排队进行登记……
Aima: Please form a line and await registration.

艾玛：天亮后列车就要启动了，请各位抓紧时间……
Aima: The train will leave at dawn, so please make good use of your time.

站台的秩序逐渐恢复。
Order is at last restored.

列车长独自留在原地，看着大雪覆满的车站，以及爆炸留下的残骸。大面积的鲜血、内脏与残块铺陈在雪地上，仿佛猩红的花朵在一瞬间突然绽放。
The conductress remains behind, watching the snowy way station and the wreckage left by the blast. Blood, organs, and fragments carpet the snow, like scarlet flowers blooming in an instant.

鲍里斯的尸首也被抬了过来。他被放置在花蕊的中心，空洞的眼珠注视着眼前的虚空。
Pyrrhos's corpse is brought forth. Laid at the center of the bloom, his hollow eyes stare into the void.

告死鸟：这地方真冷。
Corvus: This chill in the air ...

告死鸟：在斯特兰贾，我以为自己会死在一个和今天一样冷的地方。
Corvus: The last time I felt a cold like this was in Strandzha. I thought it would be the end of me.

告死鸟：我们躲藏在山里，每一根扎伤小腿的藤条上都是雪花。
Corvus: We were hiding out in the mountains. Every gust of wind felt like icy teeth biting into us.

她看着接在手心的雪花，用不了多久这些白色的小东西就会融化、消失，像她呼出的鼻息。
Snowflakes land in her palm. Soon they will melt away like breath into the cold air.

告死鸟：艾玛会继续留在“多瑙黎明号”上。
Corvus: *sigh* Aima will continue to work on the "Danube Dawn."

告死鸟：一个人畜无害的血食怪，没人会知道她的身份。她会像普通人那样活着。
Corvus: Who would ever suspect a gentle girl like her of being a vampire? She'll be able to live a quiet life.

告死鸟：偶尔用一点点鲜血来安抚她渐渐平息下去的血渴，那不是什么麻烦事。
Corvus: She'll need blood from time to time, and I will provide it.

她自言自语地说着，忽然皱眉看向一旁。
She mutters to herself, then frowns, glancing to the side.

告死鸟：……
Corvus: ...

告死鸟：出来吧。
Corvus: I see you over there. Come out.

空心木：你还是和那时候一样敏锐。什么都逃不过你的眼睛。
Verity: Eyes as sharp as ever, I see. Nothing escapes you.

告死鸟：不好意思，我们之前见过吗？
Corvus: Do I know you?

空心木：不仅见过……我们曾是最好的搭档。
Verity: Do you know me? *mocking chuckle* We were partners.

空心木：后来因为一场意外，你离开了我们。
Verity: That is, until you were lost to us in that accident.

告死鸟：抱歉，我想你应该认错人了。
Corvus: I think you have me confused, madam.

空心木：哈哈……
Verity: Heh ...

撰稿人叹了口气，随即又释然地笑了起来。
She sighs deeply.

空心木：是啊，虽然外貌一样，但你们是完全不同的两个人。
Verity: Indeed. How unfortunate that the similarities only go skin deep.

告死鸟：……
Corvus: ...

空心木：不管怎么说，起码我们有幸在同一趟列车上短暂同行。或许这也是某种奇妙的缘分吧？
Verity: Still, who's to say it wasn't a cruel twist of fate that I boarded your train? Because ...

空心木：我们也在同一天失去了自己的朋友。
Verity: In a way, we both lost someone today.

她笑着拿过列车长手中的火把，将其点燃，然后扔在了眼前的残肢肉块上。
She takes the torch from the conductress's hand, lights it, and casts it on the scattered flesh before them.

火焰静静地燃烧着。

俩人沉默地站了一会儿，直到晨曦的第一缕阳光洒下。
The flames rise with a low and crisp murmur.

车站广场（晨曦版）
The two stand together speechless for a time, until the first light of dawn spills across the ground.

空心木：天终于亮了。这可真是一个漫长的夜晚。
Verity: Dawn at last. It's been a long night.

告死鸟：走吧。
Corvus: Time to go.

列车长转过身，大步走向不远处静静停驻的列车。
She turns toward the train, still halted, waiting like a slumbering iron giant.

告死鸟：“多瑙黎明号”……即将再度启程。
Corvus: The "Danube Dawn" is ready to set off once again.

TMW-21 阳光下的土地 / A Land Under the Sun

血腥的夜晚结束了。
The bloody night is over.

列车一路向西，松脂、烟草的气息和海峡的咸风交织成一首轻快的旋律，在多瑙河的沿岸静静流淌。
The train pushes west, weaving across snowy fields as it follows the path of the Danube.

直到那一抹金色链桥的碎影倒映在河中，人们才意识到旅途即将迎来终点。
Only when they spy the Széchenyi Chain Bridge shimmering over the river do they realize their ordeal is over.

乘客们：布达佩斯——！！
Stowaways: Budapest!

停车
车站广场（晨曦版）

艾玛：列车到站啦！请大家排队离开，不要拥挤……
Aima: We are now arriving at Budapest Keleti station. Please gather your belongings and form an orderly line.

乘务员守在月台边缘维持着秩序，苍白的脸颊在晨光中泛起了一层淡金色。
The stewardess maintains order on the platform, pale cheeks touched with the golden morning light.

空心木：谢谢你们，这是一次令人难忘的旅途。
Verity: Hm. Thank you for an unforgettable journey.

空心木：列车上发生的种种都叫人着迷，谁能抵挡住它作为恐怖和犯罪小说取材地的诱惑呢？
Verity: I don't believe I've ever gathered so much useful material in a single trip. I'm almost tempted to write a novel.

空心木：有兴趣的话，欢迎以后为我们的杂志供稿。稿酬丰厚，按字结算并且绝不拖欠。
Verity: If ever you take to writing or simply have some thoughts to share, do write in. Our pay is quite generous.

她将一张白色的名片递给乘务员。
She passes a card to the stewardess.

空心木：上面有我们的联系地址和负责人姓名，欢迎随时来信。
Verity: Here. Our contact details. I hope to hear from you soon.

艾玛：《UTTU》杂志，主编“白雪松”……UTTU？好奇怪的名字。
Aima: UTTU Magazine, Editor-in-Chief, Pandora Wilson. UTTU? What an unusual name.

再抬起头时，眼前人流如织，早已不见了撰稿人的身影。
When she lifts her head again, the crowd surges by, and Verity is nowhere to be seen.

艾玛：咦……
Aima: Hm?

女孩兀自愣着神，又被不远处的高呼声吸引了注意。
Aima stares down blankly until a loud cheer pulls her back.

野树莓：再见，索尼娅女士！再见，雅科夫先生！再见，阿不思诺先生！再见……
Rubuska: Goodbye, Madam Sonya! Goodbye, Mr. Yakov! And you, Mr. Arbuthnot, sir!

安娜贝尔：不……我们不要“再见”！
Annabelle: No, don't say "goodbye"!

小伊凡：呜呜呜……你一定要记得、记得给我们写信……
Ivanushka: *sob* You promise you'll write to us?

孩童们依依不舍地围在野树莓身边。
Children cling to Rubuska, unwilling to part.

野树莓：放心吧，我会给你们写信的！还会给你们寄去小礼物！感恩节、圣诞节、生日……都会有的！
Rubuska: Cross my heart. And I'll send gifts. Christmas, birthdays, the whole lot!

安娜贝尔：真、真的吗？我感恩节想要一只红宝石眼球，万圣节想要血食怪的尖牙……
Annabelle: R-Really? Can I have a ruby eyeball for Thanksgiving and vampire fangs for Halloween?

小威廉：我也要！我也要！
Little William: Oh, me too! Me too!

多萝西：随意向他人索要礼物，这实在太失礼了……都给我回来！
Dorothy: Such naughty children! Who taught you it was appropriate to demand gifts from others like that?

家庭教师严厉的呵斥很快被淹没在孩童一声高过一声的欢呼中。
The governess's stern scolding is drowned out by their joyous shouts.

多萝西：实在抱歉。是我没有教导好他们……
Dorothy: I do apologize. I don't know where their manners have gone.

野树莓：没关系！我愿意送礼物，他们愿意收礼物，这样岂不是皆大欢喜？
Rubuska: *chuckle* No need to worry, ma'am. I'd love to send them some things. It would make me more than happy.

多萝西：……
Dorothy: ...

多萝西：感谢你，野树莓小姐。我们也一定会准备回礼的。
Dorothy: You're very kind, Ms. Rubuska. I'll be sure they prepare something for you in return.

送别了叽叽喳喳的云雀们，女孩长舒一口气。
Bidding farewell to the chattering children, Rubuska lets out a long-held breath.

野树莓：这下必须得努力打工了，不然光是每年的礼物钱就能叫我破产……
Rubuska: Right, now I really need to work hard. Ruby eyes and fangs don't pay for themselves.

塞梅尔维斯：如果你有兴趣，我可以介绍基金会的派遣工作给你。
Semmelweis: I may have some errands from the Foundation that would suit you, if you're willing.

塞梅尔维斯：虽然不能保证工作内容符合心意，但百分之百报酬丰厚。
Semmelweis: I won't say they'll be easy, but they pay well.

野树莓：呜哇，真的吗！
Rubuska: Y-You mean it?

塞梅尔维斯：当然。三位都已经在基金会做过登记了，按照条约，我不会限制你们的行动自由。
Semmelweis: Of course. Now that the three of you are registered with the Foundation, you're free to lead your lives as you wish.

塞梅尔维斯：包括你们愿意替谁工作。
Semmelweis: That includes deciding who you'll work for.

告死鸟：就这么简单？没有别的流程了？
Corvus: Is that all? Your procedures were quicker than I expected.

艾玛：是、是呀……我差点儿以为你要把我们都抓起来呢。
Aima: F-For a moment, I thought you'd take us away to the Foundation and lock us up.

塞梅尔维斯：我的确有这个想法。
Semmelweis: I admit I did toss the idea around.

女孩们：嗯？！
Girls: Huh?!

塞梅尔维斯：不过随着调查的深入，我必须遗憾地通知大家……
Semmelweis: But after a thorough investigation, I regret to say ...

调查员眨眨眼，露出一个神秘的微笑。
She blinks with the flash of a secret smile.

塞梅尔维斯：是我的情报有误。
Semmelweis: That our intelligence was faulty.

塞梅尔维斯：“多瑙黎明号”上不存在血食怪，那只是一个传言，以讹传讹的传言。
Semmelweis: There are no vampires aboard the "Danube Dawn." It's safe to dismiss the reports as no more than a rumor.

野树莓：“头儿”，你可差点儿又吓坏我们啦！
Rubuska: Oh, real funny, "boss." You nearly gave me a heart attack!

女孩们的笑声轻轻飘起，又消散在如潮水般的人流中。
The girls' laughter drifts up, then scatters into the tide of people.

塞梅尔维斯：好，那我的任务到此就结束了。
Semmelweis: Right then, it looks like my mission ends here.

塞梅尔维斯：下一站你们要去哪里？
Semmelweis: Where are you headed next?

告死鸟：进城去。我们进城去，去伊斯坦布尔。
Corvus: To the city. Istanbul.

塞梅尔维斯：你说的是……伊斯坦布尔？你们还要折返回去吗？
Semmelweis: Really? Heading back so soon?

列车长顿了一下，脸上难得露出笑意。
Corvus pauses, amusement softening her battle-scarred face.

告死鸟：这只是个玩笑。好吧，我们其实是要去维也纳。
Corvus: But our next stop is Vienna.

告死鸟：准确的说法是，“回”维也纳。有些乘客在维也纳下车。
Corvus: We have some passengers who need to get off there.

塞梅尔维斯：那这趟车还会再去东方吗？
Semmelweis: Any plans to head east again from Budapest?

告死鸟：在战争结束之前都会的，还有很多人需要我们的帮助。
Corvus: As long as these wars rage on, there will be people who need our help.

塞梅尔维斯：愿你一切顺利，列车长。不管是你们的“秘密行动”，还是未完的理想。
Semmelweis: I wish you all the best, Conductress, with your "secret operation" and with the dream you're chasing.

告死鸟：谢谢。一定会的。
Corvus: Thank you. I intend to see it happen.

告死鸟：我手下现在有两个血食怪伙计，我们离胜利又更近了一步。
Corvus: And we're making progress. Especially now that I can count on not just one but two vampires to assist me.

她指向一左一右两名“血食怪伙计”。
She points toward the two "vampires" at her side.

塞梅尔维斯：既然这样，那我就放心了。
Semmelweis: Haha, indeed. I can only conclude that things will improve from here.

塞梅尔维斯：再会，如果真的还有那一天的话。
Semmelweis: Perhaps we'll meet again, if we're lucky.

她微笑着朝大家挥了挥手，转身离去。
She smiles, waves to the crowd, and turns away.

野树莓：呼……我还以为她真的要绑走我们呢。
Rubuska: Phew. I honestly thought she meant it when she said she'd lock us up.

野树莓：血食怪可不是什么要被收容进监狱的危险目标！
Rubuska: Vampires aren't meant to be locked up in a cell.

艾玛：但是，如果再给你一次机会的话……小树莓，你会想成为血食怪吗？
Aima: I'm curious, Rubi. If you were given another chance to become a vampire, would you take it?

血红色的眼珠转了又转，最后落在艾玛身上。
Ruby eyes dance around and find their rest when they meet Aima's face.

野树莓：成为？为什么要成为，我现在不就是吗～
Rubuska: Given a chance? Mm. I don't need "a chance." I am a vampire!

野树莓：血食怪野树莓，可是“多瑙黎明号”上最最可怕的生物！
Rubuska: Haven't you heard of me? The nightmare haunting the "Danube Dawn," the terrifying monster—Rubuska the vampire!

野树莓：别看她毫不起眼，如果有谁敢欺负车上的乘客，野树莓会让他们见识到什么是真正的恐惧……
Rubuska: She prowls the train, looking for anyone who might cause trouble. And if they do, she'll see them punished.

野树莓：调查员？神秘学家？列车长？统统不值一提！
Rubuska: Investigators? Arcanists? The conductress herself? Hah! She can take them all single-handedly!

野树莓：野树莓的影子伙伴会将他们通通吃进肚子里……
Rubuska: And her shadow friends will gobble up anyone who dares stand in her way!

野树莓：哈啊——！
Rubuska: Ah-ha!

野树莓：欸啊啊啊啊啊——
Rubuska: Aaaah—

野树莓被拎起

告死鸟：不值一提？
Corvus: "Single-handedly," you say?

告死鸟：现在，不值一提的列车长命令你去打扫第五车厢的车窗。
Corvus: Let's see how our "monster" manages her chores first. The fifth carriage windows need wiping.

野树莓：打、打扫？这怎么行……
Rubuska: Ch-Chores? How could you do this to me!

告死鸟：是谁说自己什么都愿意做，只要肯让她留在“多瑙黎明号”上？
Corvus: Funny; I recall someone saying they'd do anything to stay on the train.

野树莓：那、那也不能让尊贵的血食怪干这种事，不能……！
Rubuska: Well, yeah, but, we can't have a noble vampire scrubbing windows. We just can't.

一束阳光穿透晨雾，温暖地照在车站每个人的身上。
A beam of sunlight pierces the morning fog, warming everyone at the station.

列车长沐浴在金色的晨光中，神情也变得柔和。
Bathed in gold, the conductress's scarred features soften.

告死鸟：好了，这只是个玩笑。但我必须强调，“多瑙黎明号”上的工作可不是闲差。
Corvus: Jokes aside, I must be clear—working on the "Danube Dawn" is no easy task.

告死鸟：我给你的那本《员工手册》必须牢记于心。先从第一条背起，我会随时抽查……
Corvus: You will learn the service manual by heart. And I will be testing you, so you'd better start reading.

车站人流如织，乘客们行色匆匆，无人在意眼前三人的小小互动。
The station bustles; soon-to-be passengers rush past, oblivious to the small exchange.

列车长和她的乘务员们刚刚经历了一个血腥的夜晚，又开始准备并期待着未来的旅途。
After a night steeped in death and violence, the conductress and her crew brace themselves for a renewed journey.

她们依然憧憬着那些金色的、洒满晨光的日子。
Still, they dream of these days painted gold by the morning sun.

基金会客房

塞梅尔维斯：我于一九一二年十一月三十日登上“多瑙黎明号”列车，结识了神秘学家乘客野树莓与列车长“告死鸟”等人。
Semmelweis: On November 30th, 1912, I boarded the "Danube Dawn" and encountered a young arcanist named Rubuska and the conductress of the train, Corvus, among others.

塞梅尔维斯：在尼卡检查站，与之共同挫败了投靠重塑之手的血食怪军官鲍里斯的阴谋，阻止了感染种危机扩散，并协助列车顺利驶入奥匈帝国境内。
Semmelweis: At the Nika checkpoint, we stopped Pyrrhos, a vampire and army officer affiliated with Manus Vindictae, and foiled his scheme to infect the greater population, after which the train successfully entered the territory of Austria-Hungary.

塞梅尔维斯：血食怪。
Semmelweis: "Vampire" ...

她停下笔，看着自己写下的似是而非的报告记录。
She stops writing, staring at the report before her. Half-truths have become a specialty of hers.

塞梅尔维斯：把真话说一半，呵呵，那就不算是假的咯。
Semmelweis: It hardly counts as "forging reports" if I simply leave out a few details.

塞梅尔维斯：至少我可以保证，这些事情是真实发生过的。
Semmelweis: All that I've written is true. It just "didn't occur to me" to include some minor details.

基金会职员：塞梅尔维斯小姐。
Foundation Staff Member: Ms. Semmelweis.

塞梅尔维斯：请放心，我今天一定能写完这份材料。
Semmelweis: No need to worry. I'll turn in the report by the end of the day.

基金会职员：啊，我不是来催你的。
Foundation Staff Member: Oh, I'm not here for the report.

塞梅尔维斯：嗯？
Semmelweis: Hm?

基金会职员：从维也纳出差回来的同事带了礼物，托我给你送一份。
Foundation Staff Member: Our office in Vienna received a gift. They were asked to pass it along to you.

职员小姐把一份小小的礼物盒挂在门口，随即悄悄离开。
The young clerk leaves a small gift box by the door and slips away.

塞梅尔维斯：这是……一份礼物，难道说？
Semmelweis: A gift? Could it be ...?

她放下笔，走向门边，用指甲划开信封，取出信纸。
She slices the letter open with her fingernail.

歪歪扭扭的字迹，右下角滴着如蜡印般的、浓稠的两滴血点。
The scrawl is uneven, the corner stained with two thick drops of blood like a wax seal.

塞梅尔维斯：“致圣洛夫基金会的塞梅尔维斯女士。”
Semmelweis: "Dear Ms. Semmelweis of the St. Pavlov Foundation."

接着，她看向冗长而调皮的落款。
Then her eyes fall on the illustrious, overlong, and entirely playful signature.

“瓦拉几亚大公阿诺德五世的末裔，初代埃杰什公爵萨瓦诺维奇及多瑙河畔埃杰什城堡之唯一继承人，阿诺德六世之女……”
"The youngest descendant of Arnold V, Voivode of Wallachia; true heir of Savonovic, first Duke of Arges; rightful lady of Castle Arges, daughter of Arnold VI ..."

“本世纪最最勇敢的血食怪，野树莓，从布达佩斯向你问候！”
"... and the bravest vampire of the century, Rubuska, sends her regards!"
