远征记 - The Campaign's Tale

目录

- 12TH-01 河岸静悄悄 / Quiet is the River Bank
- 12TH-02 永恒的秋天 / The Eternal Autumn
- 12TH-03 交汇口 / Intersection
- 12TH-04 寂静所笼罩的 / Beneath the Silence
- 12TH-05 陌生的目光 / Strange Gazes
- 12TH-06 一个儿子的自白 / A Son's Confession
- 12TH-07 河流两岸 / Both Sides of the River
- 12TH-08 谈判者，审判者 / The Negotiators and the Judge
- 12TH-09 白夜 / White Night
- 12TH-10 时代遗物 / Legacy of the Era
- 12TH-11 赫克托耳宣言 / The Defender's Oath
- 12TH-12 生活与命运 / Life and Fate
- 12TH-13 诀别书 / Farewell Letter
- 12TH-14 远征前夜 / The Night Before War
- 12TH-15 指尖的灰烬 / Dust Between Fingers
- 12TH-16 怜悯之心 / Mercy
- 12TH-17 骑兵们 / The Cavalry
- 12TH-18 灰色马 / The Pale Horse
- 12TH-19 牺牲简报 / Casualty Report
- 12TH-20 最后的防线 / The Last Defense
- 12TH-21 将军与他的部下们 / The Admiral and His Men
- 12TH-22 顿河悲歌 / Elegy for the Don
- 12TH-23 遥远的路程 / The Long Road Ahead
- 12TH-24 启程日 / The Day of Departure
- 12TH-25 罪与罚 / Crime and Punishment

12TH-01 河岸静悄悄 / Quiet is the River Bank

谢尔盖：看见土匪了吗？
Sergey: Did you see the bandits?

红弩箭：我看见了几只金花鼠，除此之外就什么都没有了。
Lilya: Not even a sign; just some chipmunks.

谢尔盖：那我们就在这里休息吧，中尉，天气很热，得让马喝口水。
Sergey: *sigh* Think we should take a rest, Lieutenant? Sun's beating down, and we need to get the horses watered.

谢尔盖：我们到的地方比预定的侦察点要远很多，它们一定都累坏了。你绝不能累坏自己的马。
Sergey: We've gone quite a way farther than the assigned watchpoint. Even if we can push on, the horses can't. Never exhaust your horse, remember.

红弩箭：那就按你说的，休息一下。
Lilya: Fine. Take a break, team.

红弩箭：对了——下次拿着望远镜的时候别对天瞎看。
Lilya: And Sergey, if you shine the light off that telescope into my eyes one more time ...

红弩箭：要是反光再晃到我的眼睛，我就用导弹轰你。
Lilya: The last thing you'll see is a missile to the face. Understood?

谢尔盖：好、好吧，我下次一定不会了。
Sergey: Ahh. Understood, Lieutenant.

中尉收起望远镜，交给身旁的谢尔盖。她敏捷地翻身下马，从鞍袋中拿出一捧事先备好喂马用的燕麦。
Lieutenant Lilya retracts the telescope and hands it to Sergey. She hops off her horse and pulls a handful of oats from her saddlebag.

战马：咴。
War Horse: *neigh*

马儿喘着气吃完了一捧燕麦，随后又贪婪地用鼻子使劲蹭上红弩箭的颈窝。
The horse snorts as it eats, then nudges Lilya's neck affectionately with its nose.

红弩箭：嘿——你还想吃吗？
Lilya: Hey, soldier, you want some more?

正当她打算再取一些食料的时候，谢尔盖靠上前来。
Just as she reaches for more feed, Sergey leans in.

谢尔盖：这匹马是你第一次骑吧，中尉？
Sergey: This your first time riding this horse, Lieutenant?

红弩箭：没错，我想它要饿坏了。
Lilya: Yeah. He's a hungry fella.

谢尔盖：没有这样的事，它是个狡猾的贪吃鬼，别把它喂得太好了。它得学会自己去嚼草根。
Sergey: *chuckle* No, he's just greedy. Uses the same trick on all the new riders. If he wants something else to eat, he'll have to find it himself.

红弩箭：你听见了，这可不能怪我——去喝水吧。
Lilya: Oh, little liar, you heard him. No more oats for you. Go get some water.

红弩箭稍微用力地拍了拍马脖子，遭到拒绝的马儿垂头丧气地摇晃着脑袋，冲着谢尔盖打响鼻。
Lilya pats its neck a little harder. Denied another bite, the horse lowers its head before giving Sergey a dejected snort.

芝诺骑兵Ⅰ：把它交给我吧，中尉。
Zeno Cavalryman I: Leave him to me, Lieutenant.

另一位士兵上前来，卸下被固定在马背上的飞行扫帚，随后将闹脾气的马牵去河边饮水。
Another soldier steps forward, unfastens the flying broomstick from its saddle, and leads the disgruntled horse down to the river for a drink.

飞行女巫将扫帚安放在身边，在与季节不符的温暖空气中，她嗅到尤为浓烈的河水腥气与苦艾的干涩气味。
Lilya sets the broom down beside her. In the unseasonably warm air, she catches a dry scent, sharp with river water and wormwood.

谢尔盖：这真的很不对劲，十一月的日子不应该这么暖和——你见过这样的冬天吗？
Sergey: This feels wrong, doesn't it? It really shouldn't be this warm. Ever seen a November like this, Lieutenant?

红弩箭：我在十一月见过夏天，但那是在地球另一头。现在这儿的天气确实有些怪。
Lilya: Yeah, but on the other side of the world. This is weird for sure.

谢尔盖：没错，早就该下雪了，可天气还像刚入秋那样。
Sergey: Usually, the snow would be thick by now. But this feels like early autumn still.

青年抬手，抹去额头的汗水，指着面前泛着青光的河流。
The newly enlisted cavalryman lifts a hand to wipe the sweat from his forehead, then points to the river, its surface glowing with a greenish light.

谢尔盖：如果不是这样的天，再过几个星期，河面应该要上冻了，我们可以直接从浅滩走过河。
Sergey: The Don would usually be frozen over in the shallower parts, too. We'd be able to walk right over it.

谢尔盖：过河之后，再往前走一点就可以看见顿河的拐点，到那时，沿着河流往上走，就到了别列格勒。
Sergey: The meander's just a little farther. Bereggrad would be too, if we could just cross it.

谢尔盖：你去过城里吗？
Sergey: You been to the city?

城里——对生活在这片草原上的人来说，这座城指的就是别列格勒。
The city. To the people of this steppe, these words mean Bereggrad.

红弩箭：基金会在城里有分部，我偶尔会去送些信件，或者处理一些烦人的手续。
Lilya: Yeah. To go to the Foundation branch. Delivering letters, dealing with procedures. *sigh* Annoying stuff like that.

谢尔盖：说起信件——一些上前线的同村人给家人来信了，听说他们正在回家的路上。
Sergey: Oh, speaking of letters, my townsfolk sent some back from the front. Seems they're on their way home.

谢尔盖摇摇头，似乎并不太认同同乡返家这件事。
Sergey shakes his head, seemingly unhappy with the idea.

红弩箭：怎么，和你邻里关系不好，不想见他们？
Lilya: What, they beat on you or something?

谢尔盖：怎么能这么说呢，我和谁的关系都好，我很开心他们能活着回来。
Sergey: Why'd you say that? I couldn't be happier to have them home safe.

谢尔盖：我是在想，就算这时候回家，也没有地可以种了。
Sergey: It's just ... It should be farming season, but they'll come back to find nothing to farm.

年轻的哥萨克就地蹲下，用力抓了一把脚边的牧草。
He squats down and grabs a fistful of the grass beneath his feet.

谢尔盖：天气是暖和，但这小麦像中邪了一样，还没到新年呢，秆子就蹿得老高，眼瞧着都要枯了——但它偏偏又不结穗。
Sergey: The weather was just right last year, but something went seriously wrong. It grew fast, tall too, but didn't make any seed at all.

谢尔盖：夏天那茬粮食收成又差得没眼看，我们村里的谷仓都快空了……留在边境至少饿不死。
Sergey: Our summer harvest was a complete disaster. The barns are almost empty. At least they won't starve to death at the front.

红弩箭：你想得太简单了，重塑之手的军队可能会出现在任何地方，没有地方是安全的。
Lilya: But Manus Vindictae could strike at any time out there. Probably safer for them to come back.

谢尔盖：重塑之手会打到顿河来吗？
Sergey: Do you think the Manus will reach the Don?

红弩箭：现在他们的主力都在西欧，但他们就像老鼠一样，在你觉得很干净的地方，突然冒出来一大窝。
Lilya: Hard to say. The main force is in Western Europe for now, but the Manus are like rats. Who knows where they might show up next.

新入伍的骑兵有些毛躁地抓着还没个影子的胡须。
The young Cossack scratches at the few thin hairs on his upper lip—the boy's best attempt at any kind of moustache.

谢尔盖：自从加入芝诺以来，我还没有打过一场像样的仗。
Sergey: Ugh, I swear I did more fighting during training than in actual service.

谢尔盖：成天只等长官一声令下——“嘿，谢尔盖，去找找那些土匪藏在哪里？”可怜的谢尔盖就要跑断腿了。
Sergey: All I do is wait around for orders, and this one's just stupid. "Find out where the bandits are hiding." Are you serious?

谢尔盖：土匪哪里是那么好找的，又不像咱们骑兵军有个大营地。那都是些缩在林子里的几十号人，到了夜里就去打家劫舍。
Sergey: You're telling me we have to find just a few dozen people who only come out at night somewhere in all this forest? They may as well have us search for a needle in a haystack.

红弩箭：那你觉得打仗是怎么回事？
Lilya: Hm. So what do you think real war is like?

谢尔盖：我知道打仗是怎么回事。我的爷爷，我的父亲，还有我哥哥，都上过战场。
Sergey: Oh, I know what it's like. All the men in my family have fought on the battlefield: my grandfather, my father, and my brother.

青年并没有很好地回答红弩箭的问题，他尴尬地移开视线，看向红弩箭一直放在身边的飞行扫帚。
He dodges the question, fixing his eyes on the flying broom Lilya always carries.

谢尔盖：下一个渡河的浅滩还要再走几里才能到，为什么你不飞过去看一眼呢，中尉？
Sergey: Next ford's a few kilometers off yet. Why don't you just fly over and take a look?

谢尔盖：这样我们的侦察任务就算完成了，天黑之前就可以回营，不需要在外面过夜。
Sergey: It'll be a heck of a lot faster. Be able to return to camp before dark.

红弩箭：红色38吃的可不是草料，我没有多少燃料用来浪费。另外，它的飞行时长是按分钟计算的。
Lilya: Red 38 isn't fueled by grass like one of your horses, and its flight time is measured in minutes, not hours.

红弩箭：我可不想在真正遇到敌人的时候，驾驶一架超过保养寿命的扫帚。
Lilya: Or are you trying to keep me grounded if we get into a fight?

谢尔盖：如果你教会我怎么用飞行扫帚，是不是就能多申请一架Su-01ве？我们可以轮流飞行。
Sergey: I know! Why don't you teach me to fly a broomstick and apply for a new Su-01ве? Then we can take turns scouting.

红弩箭：我很想看你从天上掉下来的样子，可我不想和军长说你手底下的骑兵在我的扫帚上摔断了一条胳膊。
Lilya: Oh, I'd love to see your face when you fall from the sky, but I'd rather not tell your commander that his cavalryman broke a leg flying my broom.

谢尔盖：别忘了，你刚来的时候也不会骑马，是斯捷尔诺娃上校教你才没有从马上摔下来。
Sergey: *chuckle* It's not like you're any better. If it weren't for Colonel Sternova, you'd have gone face-first in the dirt your first day on a horse.

谢尔盖：而我在年龄只有你一半的时候，就能从村子里骑马去别列格勒卖甜菜了。
Sergey: I, on the other hand, was regularly riding from my village to Bereggrad with sacks full of beets at half your age.

红弩箭：这可要比马难驾驭多了。我说不行就是不行，也不要在晚上来偷我的扫帚。
Lilya: Broomsticks aren't horses. And if I catch you sneaking in to steal it at night, you're a dead man. Got it?

芝诺骑兵Ⅰ：没错，他从小就喜欢偷别人东西。
Zeno Cavalryman I: You're right to warn him, Lieutenant! Sergey's been stealing since he was a kid.

饮马归来的骑兵加入了争吵。
The cavalryman returns with the horse just in time to join the verbal beating.

芝诺骑兵Ⅰ：他去年想偷我们家的渔网，被我爷爷抓到，差点打断了手。
Zeno Cavalryman I: Just last year, he tried to nab our fishnet. My grandpa caught him, of course. Nearly broke Sergey's hand when he wrestled it from him!

芝诺骑兵Ⅱ：哈哈——
Zeno Cavalryman II: Hahahahaha!

同行骑兵哄笑起来，被轻易揭穿的青年涨红了脸，随即别过脸，移开了视线。
The other cavalrymen burst into laughter as Sergey's face flushes beet red. He turns away but barks a hasty rebuttal.

谢尔盖：闭嘴！——反正你们家老爷子从来不用那张网。
Sergey: Shut up! It's not like he ever used it anyway.

不良行为被揭穿的人没能制止同伴的嘲弄。骑兵们趁着兴头，一件件揭露谢尔盖的旧日丑闻。
But he can't stop the taunts. The cavalrymen take obvious delight in dredging up his old scandals one by one.

谢尔盖：该死的，我绝对不要再和你们这帮净会诽谤的蠢小子待在一个队伍。
Sergey: Damn it! Stop making things up about me! Ugh, I can't stand it here!

谢尔盖：回去我就要申请调到老土岗村的那个连去。
Sergey: You know what? When I get back, I'm going straight to the commander to get transferred to the Prisklonnaya company.

芝诺骑兵Ⅰ：老土岗村，你是说五连？那不是你老情敌指挥的部队吗？
Zeno Cavalryman I: You mean the fifth company? Isn't their commander your old rival in love?

哥萨克中爆发出一阵更加猛烈的嘲笑。
Even louder laughter erupts from the Cossacks.

红弩箭：呵……
Lilya: Heh!

飞行女巫不再理会嬉闹的骑兵，她抬头，望向河对岸高空中滚动的厚重云团——那些悬空的、洁白的堡垒。
Ignoring their rowdy banter, Lilya lifts her gaze to the heavy clouds drifting beyond the river like white fortresses floating in the sky.

干燥而温暖的气流掠过高空与原野，缓缓推动浮空的城堡，也卷起红弩箭被汗水沾湿的头发。
Dry, warm air sweeps across the plain, driving the floating castles forward and tugging at Lilya's sweat-soaked hair.

红弩箭：啧，这温度是真不对劲，走两步都能闷出一身汗，我就知道基金会永远抽不出人来管这里的怪事。
Lilya: Tsk, already sweating. This heat's not normal. No one in the Foundation got the time to look into this?

红弩箭：也许会把维尔汀放出来？……那倒也不错。
Lilya: Maybe they'll send Vertin? That wouldn't be so bad.

她的注意力逐渐被天地交接处的平缓线条所吸引，这是在深藏于群山中的基金会里永远无法看见的景物。
Her eyes are drawn to the merging line between earth and sky—a view she could never have seen from the Foundation, hidden away in the mountains.

当视线顺着坡道游走时，一些似乎是在跳动的黑点突兀地破坏了地平线的流畅感。
Then, along the slope, black figures burst into view, tearing ragged gaps into the horizon.

红弩箭：……嗯？谢尔盖？
Lilya: Hm? Sergey?

谢尔盖：怎么啦？
Sergey: Someone call me?

红弩箭：刚才是不是你把望远镜拿走了？把它拿来。
Lilya: Me. You got the telescope, right? Hand it over.

谢尔盖：你说什么，中尉？他们现在可要把我脑袋都给吵晕了！
Sergey: What's that, Lieutenant? I can't hear you!

红弩箭：我说——
Lilya: I said—

谢尔盖：唔——！
Sergey: Urgh!

一颗子弹——像是对放松警惕者的责罚——穿透了谢尔盖的血肉。
A bullet tears through Sergey—the price for a moment of carelessness.

红弩箭：见鬼！
Lilya: Damn it!

谢尔盖：啊、啊……啊啊啊——
Sergey: Ah, ah! Ahhhhhh!

谢尔盖在同伴们惊愕的目光中仰面倒下，随之而至的是枪声、马匹嘶鸣、杂乱难辨的叫喊——
Before the cavalrymen can even react, Sergey has collapsed onto his back. The plain explodes into gunfire, screaming horses, and panicked shouts.

——以及红色38的神秘学引擎紧急启动的尖啸。
Among the chaos, Red 38 roars to life.

飞行女巫已然升空，她在低空兜着圈子，暂且充当着引人注目而难以命中的靶子。
Lilya kicks off, circling low to draw the enemy's fire.

红弩箭：是匪军！他们在河对岸。萨沙，你把谢尔盖拖到石头后面去！
Lilya: Bandits! Across the river! Sasha, get Sergey behind the rocks!

红弩箭：其他人朝我指的方向开枪，掩护萨沙和谢尔盖，每人打光五发子弹之后找机会上马！
Lilya: The rest of you, cover fire in this direction! Empty a clip, and mount your horses!

芝诺骑兵Ⅰ：是、是，中尉！你要到哪儿去？
Zeno Cavalryman I: C-Copy! What about you, Lieutenant?

红弩箭：我当然要飞到他们背后去捅一刀——离我远点，别被掀翻了！
Lilya: I'll take a little trip to their rear. Stand back! Wouldn't want to swallow my exhaust!

五秒后，久经战阵的Su-01ве成功载着它的飞行员冲上100英尺的高度，轻而易举地从敌人头顶飞越。
Seconds later, the battle-tested Su-01ве soars a hundred feet in the air, effortlessly carrying its pilot over her enemies.

红弩箭：好吧，让我看看你们都是些什么东西。
Lilya: Alright, let's see what you got.

这场隔河对射的小规模冲突，在一方拥有空中优势的情况下迅速结束。河畔复归宁静。
The brief exchange of fire ends quickly under air superiority. The riverside grows quiet again.

红弩箭悬停在半空中，将地面的局势尽收眼底。
Lilya hovers above, keeping a bird's-eye view of the area.

红弩箭：土匪损失了两个人，剩下三人在往北逃……噢，他们想钻到树林里去。
Lilya: Two bandits down, last three heading north. Looks like they're taking cover in the woods.

红弩箭：骑兵军只有谢尔盖一人受伤，萨沙留下来照顾他了，看样子无大碍。
Lilya: Only one injured, and Sasha's with him. Nothing to worry about there.

红弩箭：剩下的人已经上马，正在往渡河的浅滩去。那这两个被抛下的土匪就交给他们负责吧。
Lilya: Rest are headed to the ford. They can deal with the downed two.

飞行女巫调转方向。此刻她还能看见骑马逃亡的匪军的背影。
Lilya turns in the direction of the fleeing bandits.

红弩箭：——我看看能不能揪出他们的老巢。
Lilya: I'll find their hideout.

重重树影当然能遮蔽地面追击者的视野，但对于空中的鹰隼来说不是很起作用。
The shadows of the trees may veil the ground below, but they cannot stop the eagle that soars above.

枯黄的叶片已被秋风吹走了大半，如今只有细瘦的树杈胡乱地刺向天空，织成一片稀疏的网。
Most of the yellowing leaves have been swept away by the autumn wind, leaving their slender branches thrusting out in all directions, like a sparse web strung up into the sky.

红弩箭：加把劲，跑得再快点吧，别浪费我的时间。
Lilya: Come on. Can't you run faster? Wasting my time.

对习惯了高速掠空的飞行员来说，这种“追击”几乎和放牧没有太大的区别。
For a pilot accustomed to the high speeds of the Su-01ве, this hunt is closer to herding livestock.

红弩箭：照这么飞下去，我看我还有时间停下来喝一杯……
Lilya: At this rate, I'll have time to spare for a drink.

红弩箭：——！
Lilya: ...!!

一朵黑云在她的耳旁炸开。
A black cloud explodes beside her ear.

紧接着，是第二朵——第三朵——数百枚细碎的金属碎片在她的衣服上撕开了数不清的裂口。
Then another. And a third. Hundreds of tiny metal fragments slice countless cuts into her clothes.

红弩箭：见鬼了，是防空炮？！——他们从哪里搞来这种东西？
Lilya: Triple-A? How the hell did they get that?

飞行女巫没有掉头。她压低高度，几乎擦到了树梢，执拗地以规避姿态向防空火力的来源飞去。
She drops down, flying so low that the tips of the branches nearly catch her as she presses on toward its source.

红弩箭：开火的声音很近了，还差一点——让我看看你们在林子里都藏了些什么东西！
Lilya: Just a little closer. Let me see what you're hiding in there!

干枯交错的枝条将她眼前的景物切成碎片，四处爆炸的黑色硝烟又让一切都染上模糊不清的暗色。
Bare branches slice her view into fragments. Black smoke smears everything dark.

但她的勇气还是为她换来了一个电光石火般的瞬间。鹰隼的目光敏锐地捕捉到一块架设着防空炮的林中空地。
But her determination grants her a fleeting instant, just enough for her to catch sight of a small glade where an anti-aircraft gun stands.

红弩箭：这就够了！
Lilya: Gotcha!

她拉起Su-01ве，以几乎是与地面垂直的角度刺入高空厚重的云团。
She pulls the Su-01ве upward, driving it into the heavy clouds at a near-vertical angle.

红弩箭：那门高射炮不是这个时代的东西，土匪绝对搞不到手。至于型号……不，就算只瞄一眼我也不会认错——
Lilya: Weapon's not from this era. No way bandits could get their hands on it. Yeah, there's no mistaking the model.

红弩箭：——AZP-37高射炮，是芝诺的武器。
Lilya: Automatic anti-aircraft gun 37—AZP-37. It's Zeno.

红弩箭：得把这事告诉军长。也许维尔汀也会感兴趣，可以给她捎条留言。
Lilya: Need to report this to the commander. Vertin will want to know, too.

“喀咯咯——”
*eek-eek-eek*

红弩箭：哈？
Lilya: Huh?

身下的扫帚发出松散的破碎声，精密的飞行器早已在防空火力中受损，如今终于快要支撑不住。
Her broom's been hit. It's failing.

红弩箭：现在可不行，老伙计，你至少得把我带回河边去，我可不想栽在这林子里。
Lilya: No, no, no. Not now, buddy! At least get me clear of the woods!

晚了。暴力驾驶的后果就是无故障时间急剧缩短。她急速下坠。
It's too late. She's already pushed the broom beyond its limits. She's falling fast.

红弩箭：好吧，这下是真的糟了。
Lilya: This is bad. Really bad.

红弩箭：稳住！
Lilya: Steady!

12TH-02 永恒的秋天 / The Eternal Autumn

顿河下游的平缓草甸上，土围子和原木围出了一块营地。不比一座堡垒更大，但足以让一支军队歇下脚。
Downstream of the Don, on a stretch of flat meadow, a camp rises from mud-packed earth and stacked logs. It's no grand fortress, but it's enough to shelter an army at rest.

芝诺骑兵军军长伊万·伊万诺维奇·布列科夫正在观看一群新兵按照芝诺操典练习队列。
Zeno cavalry commander Ivan Ivanovich Burakov stands, tall and broad, watching the recruits drill their formations.

军长伊万：……
Commander Ivan: ...

斯捷尔诺娃：军长。
Sternova: Commander.

一声问候之后，芝诺骑兵军参谋长莎宾娜·斯捷尔诺娃迎面走来。
With her usual brief greeting, Zeno cavalry chief of staff Sabina Sternova approaches.

军长伊万：有什么事吗，莎宾娜？
Commander Ivan: Yes, Sabina?

斯捷尔诺娃：我看你从指挥室里出来了，有什么要指示的吗？
Sternova: You've left the war room. Any commands?

军长伊万：只是出来透透气，帐篷里太闷热了。
Commander Ivan: Just catching a breath. That stuffy air will be the death of me.

军长伊万：另外，最近又有很多新兵入伍，我多出来走一走，能帮助他们记住自己的军长长什么样。
Commander Ivan: Besides, a little more time among the pups won't hurt. Keep their spines straight and their commanding officer's face in their minds.

斯捷尔诺娃：的确如此，但我相信他们已经认识你了。很多人都是在你亲自去村子里动员的时候，才决定加入骑兵军的。
Sternova: I think they know your face already. After all, many only joined the cavalry after you gave that speech in the village.

军长伊万：那也不错。有些新人是红柳树村来的，他们有带来什么新消息吗？
Commander Ivan: Ah, Tamarovka. Tell me, Sabina, did the pups bring any news?

斯捷尔诺娃：你想问的是佳琳娜夫人？——她一切都好，说希望有机会再见你一次。
Sternova: From Ms. Galina? She's fine. She says she wants to see you again at your convenience.

军长伊万：最近骑兵军不会有大动作，应该能抽出一点时间去看看她。
Commander Ivan: There are no great rides ahead for now. I'll find the time to visit her.

军长伊万：只是，“金色饥荒”一直持续的话，她继续留在顿河也不安全了。
Commander Ivan: *sigh* If this Golden Famine continues to gnaw at us, the Don will be no home for her.

军长伊万：冬天迟迟不肯到来，依靠土地生长的作物又没法自然生长……要想个办法劝她离开。
Commander Ivan: No winter, no crops ... The steppe has turned her most brutal. I will find a way to persuade her to leave.

斯捷尔诺娃：我们早就向基金会报告了顿河的饥荒，可答应派来解决气候异常的调查员至今没见到踪影。
Sternova: We reported the famine to the Foundation long ago, but there's still no sign of their investigators.

军长伊万：这里不是战争的焦点地区，人手不足的时候，基金会是不会在乎顿河的。
Commander Ivan: This is far from the heart of the war, and with the Foundation so short on manpower, we're just dust on their boots.

营地入口处传来杂沓的马蹄声，这是营内常见的“意外发生”预兆。
Messy hoofbeats burst from the camp entrance—the familiar sound of bad news.

斯捷尔诺娃：——怎么了？
Sternova: What's wrong?

红弩箭：——让一让，别顾着你们的队列了，新兵蛋子们。
Lilya: Out of the way, rookies. Wounded incoming.

芝诺骑兵Ⅰ：是啊，你们没听到这家伙的鬼哭狼嚎吗？太可怜了，我都要替他流眼泪了。
Zeno Cavalryman I: Yeah, don't you hear his whimpering? I could almost cry.

匆忙进入营地的马队后方，缀着一名被绑在马背上的哀嚎着的伤员。
At the rear, tied to a horse's back, sits a wailing injured boy.

谢尔盖：你——你可闭嘴吧，萨沙。我中弹了——中弹了！你明白吗？
Sergey: Sh-Shut up, Sasha! I got shot, for God's sake, shot!

谢尔盖：疼啊，太疼了——我要废了……
Sergey: Argh, it hurts. I'm never going to walk again.

营地里的士兵纷纷为归营的侦察队让开通路。红弩箭率先在开阔处下马，接着是除了谢尔盖之外的其他队员。
The soldiers quickly clear the way for the reconnaissance team. Lilya dismounts first, followed by the rest of the team, except Sergey.

芝诺骑兵Ⅱ：谢尔盖交给我吧，中尉。你去找军长。
Zeno Cavalryman II: Leave Sergey to me, Lieutenant. You should report to the commander.

红弩箭：没问题，你最好想个办法让他住嘴，否则他迟早要对营地里的每个人都讲一遍受伤的英勇壮举。
Lilya: On it. And find a way to shut him up before the whole camp's forced to listen to the wails of his great military feat.

她刚刚转过身，就看见了正在向事发现场走来的骑兵军指挥官。
She turns to see the commander striding forward.

军长伊万：我就在这里，出什么事了，中尉？
Commander Ivan: No need to hunt me down, Lieutenant. What news?

红弩箭：出了些小意外，在下一批飞行扫帚的零件送到前我飞不了了。
Lilya: Bad is what. Broomstick's broken. Won't be flying until I get the parts to fix it.

红弩箭：但这还不是最糟的，军长，我想我们碰上了一些真正的大麻烦。
Lilya: But it gets worse. We have a situation, sir. And I think it's a big one.

军长伊万：和我到指挥室说。莎宾娜，你也一起来。
Commander Ivan: To the war room. You too, Sabina.

军长伊万：……芝诺装备的AZP-37高射炮，还有神秘术引导的近炸防空炮弹，出现在匪军手中。
Commander Ivan: So, the bandits have Zeno AZP-37s and arcane-guided VT fuse anti-aircraft guns.

军长伊万：这一切你都很有把握吗，中尉？
Commander Ivan: You swear it, Lieutenant?

红弩箭：我不会看错。我还在受训的时候，教官就是用这种炮来让我们练习规避——当然，装的是训练弹。
Lilya: Yes. We practiced how to dodge anti-aircraft shots with these kinds of guns when I was a trainee. Loaded with training ammo, of course.

斯捷尔诺娃：骑兵军近期没有丢失武器的记录，更不用说我们根本没有装备这个型号的高射炮。
Sternova: There have been no reports of missing weapons, and we're not carrying any AZPs.

将军中物资流向牢记于心的参谋长率先排除了部分可能性。
The chief of staff, keeping the entire supply chain in mind, quickly rules out several possibilities.

军长伊万：也就是说可以假定AZP-37是从外部进入顿河流域的。进一步说，有很大可能匪军还藏有更多类似的重武器。
Commander Ivan: Then those weapons came from an outer source, and like as not, they have more of them.

斯捷尔诺娃：从外部的话……空运是绝无可能的，而从外部进入骑兵军管辖区的主要陆地与航运通道都处在监视之下。
Sternova: An outer source ... Impossible through air, and all land and water routes are under our surveillance.

斯捷尔诺娃：要说匪军熟悉环境，知道某些隐藏的小路，那骑兵军里的本地士兵也一样会知道。
Sternova: And there's no reason the locals wouldn't know about any hidden bypaths they might have used.

斯捷尔诺娃：目前看不出匪军有什么办法将大量武器和人员运送到顿河流域。
Sternova: I can't think of any way of transporting mass weaponry and personnel without drawing attention.

军长伊万：比起渠道，更重要的是供应者——除芝诺本身之外，有谁掌握芝诺装备？
Commander Ivan: Then we look to the hand that fed them. Who would hold Zeno weaponry besides Zeno itself?

斯捷尔诺娃：也许是重塑之手在其他战场缴获了我方的武器，然后把它们提供给了顿河的匪军。
Sternova: Manus Vindictae? They might've captured them on another battlefield and given them to the bandits here.

红弩箭：把一切都推给重塑之手确实是个省事的思路，不过我看这种可能性并不是很大。
Lilya: Yeah, the Manus. That would save us some brain juice. But I don't think that's likely.

红弩箭：匪军里的人类多到能让基金会心花怒放。相比合作，重塑之手应该更想把他们一起消灭。
Lilya: Do you know how many humans there are among the bandits? Any Manus would blast them all to bits before they gave them so much as a pistol.

红弩箭：另外，匪军在遭受损失之后就立刻逃跑，他们没有表现出受重塑之手控制的那种疯狂的进攻性。
Lilya: Plus, these guys ran as soon as they suffered a loss. There's no way they're under Manus Vindictae's control.

红弩箭：我们还是谈谈另外一种可能性吧——有没有可能是伊戈尔的叛军？
Lilya: There is a possibility we're ignoring here: Igor's rebels.

骑兵军将领们的表情凝固了一秒，就连烛光也突然静滞。可抛出话题的中尉却仿佛与空气中的情绪完全隔绝。
For a second, the faces of the Cavalry Corps's leaders freeze. Even the candlelight seems to stop flickering. Only Lilya seems immune to it.

红弩箭：他也有能力从非常规渠道投送人员和武器，对吧，军长？我记得你以前在伊戈尔手下干过。
Lilya: You served under Igor, didn't you, Commander? He's more than capable of transporting personnel and supplies in unconventional ways, right?

斯捷尔诺娃：中尉，我需要纠正一点——
Sternova: I have to correct you, Lieutenant.

军长伊万：没错，在伊戈尔手下的时候，我了解过他的神秘术。他的确有办法突破封锁投送武器和人员。
Commander Ivan: You're right. While under Igor, I saw his arcane skill in use. He could slip men and guns through stone as if it were air.

红弩箭：好消息是，伊戈尔在南极仪式之后和重塑之手闹掰了。无论是哪一种可能，我们只要面对两个麻烦中的一个。
Lilya: Well, good news is, Igor cut ties with Manus Vindictae after the ritual in Antarctica. So whether it's him or them, we only need to deal with one.

这种程度的好消息还无法驱散军长眼窝中沉积着的一片铁灰色。
News like this cannot lift the iron-gray shadows sitting beneath the commander's eyes.

军长伊万：就算假定是伊戈尔，不明朗之处还有很多。他和他所谓的狮鹫军到距离前线上千公里的别列格勒附近做什么？
Commander Ivan: If it is Igor, the questions only grow. Why bring this Gryphon Legion of his to Bereggrad, so far from the front?

军长伊万：就算这里有什么他想要的东西，他又为什么和匪军合作？——据我对他的了解，他可看不起土匪。
Commander Ivan: Even if he seeks something here, why ride with bandits? He never stomached their filth before.

军长伊万：他想要补给？可“金色饥荒”已经让顿河地区颗粒无收，还是说他就是这场饥荒的始作俑者？
Commander Ivan: Is it supplies he wants? But the Golden Famine grips the entire basin. Or is this all by his hand?

男人的追问快要逐渐演化为焦躁的絮语，他赶紧制止自己继续说下去。
His questions quickly trail off into agitated muttering. He stops himself before more can leave his lips.

军长伊万：我会把这件事告知指挥部，情报部门应该能分析出更多可靠的信息。
Commander Ivan: I'll send word to headquarters. Intelligence should reach a more solid conclusion.

军长伊万：莎宾娜，把巡逻队的人数和任务频率都提高一倍，重点关照较为隐蔽的林地地区。
Commander Ivan: Sabina, double the patrols. I want eyes on the woods at all times.

斯捷尔诺娃：遵命，军长。
Sternova: Yes, sir.

军长伊万：红弩箭中尉，骑术不是你的专长，所以，在飞行扫帚修好之前，我要求你留在营地。
Commander Ivan: Lieutenant Lilya, since horsemanship is not your expertise, you will remain at camp until your broomstick is mended. That's an order.

飞行女巫想说些什么来反驳对她骑术的否定，但还是把话咽了回去。
Lilya almost defends her riding skills but quickly swallows her words.

红弩箭：——好吧，我明白了。
Lilya: Alright, understood.

在这个钟点，很容易就能找到营地里的野战厨房——烤无酵饼的香气会引导饥饿的人穿越营帐构成的迷宫。
It's easy to find the field kitchen at this hour. The aroma of hot unleavened bread guides their rumbling stomachs through the maze of tents.

红弩箭：倒是正好赶上了饭点。
Lilya: Right in time for dinner.

她在一只硕大的汤锅前瞄到了与其他士兵站在一起的谢尔盖，他正端着碗，一边往口中塞食物一边不停说话。
She glances at Sergey, who's standing among the other soldiers around a huge soup pot. He holds his bowl, talking between heavy mouthfuls.

谢尔盖：……说时迟那时快，朋友，我仿佛是看到子弹朝我飞过来。真的，一定是我身上的护身符起作用了。
Sergey: ... In that moment, I saw the bullet coming at me! I'm telling you, my amulet worked!

谢尔盖：我赶忙一个侧身，虽然是躲过了致命伤，但子弹还是往我腿肚子里打去了。你们绝对想不到那是什么滋味……
Sergey: Gave me just enough time to dodge the hit to the chest. Still hit the leg, though. You have no idea how much it hurts.

红弩箭：我看你恢复得挺快啊，谢尔盖。
Lilya: Too bad it didn't hit your mouth.

谢尔盖：中尉，你来了——
Sergey: H-Hey, Lieutenant.

谢尔盖手中的碗一抖，不自觉地并腿立正，些许白菜汤洒在他的手指缝里。
His legs snap to attention, some cabbage soup spilling from the bowl in his quivering hand onto his fingertips.

红弩箭：刚把腿肚子里的子弹取出来，你就能自己走来捞汤喝了？
Lilya: Oh yeah, must really hurt. Still managed to drag yourself to the mess hall for some soup though, didn't you?

谢尔盖：那……那是当然，我可是钢筋铁骨。唉，说到这汤啊——
Sergey: W-Well, of course! It'll take more than a bullet to take me down. Speaking of soup—

他举起手中的碗，容器内是泡着一张饼的卷心菜汤。
He raises the bowl in his hand. Inside, a few measly scraps of cabbage float around a single soaked scrap of bread.

谢尔盖：你看看我们吃的是什么东西啊？当兵的不能就靠这些东西过活呀。
Sergey: Look at this stuff! We're soldiers, not rabbits!

红弩箭：别抱怨了，你自己不是藏了一些肉干吗？——拿出来吃了吧。
Lilya: Quit your whining. I know you've got some dried meat. Eat it.

红弩箭也从供餐处拿走一块饼，又从汤锅中舀起一碗汤。纤薄的菜叶像是一片浸湿的纱布一般沉在碗底。
Lilya grabs a piece of bread from the table and spoons herself a bowl of soup. The thin cabbage leaves sink to the bottom of the bowl like damp gauze.

和所有人的吃法一样，红弩箭也用菜汤来泡软干硬的无酵饼。
Like everyone else, she dips the dry unleavened bread into her soup to soften it.

谢尔盖掏出一些肉干交给红弩箭，自己又从身后拿出一瓶藏好的饮料。瓶中的液体清亮透明，看似无害。
Sergey hands her some dried meat, then pulls a bottle from behind his back. The liquid inside is clear—seemingly harmless.

谢尔盖：给，你也喝点。
Sergey: Here, have some, Lieutenant.

红弩箭：这还不错。
Lilya: Not bad.

谢尔盖：……所以，到底是怎么回事，土匪手里怎么会有那样厉害的玩意儿，能把你都打下来？
Sergey: So, what was it? How come the bandits have something powerful enough to shoot you down?

红弩箭：现在谁也说不准匪军是怎么搞到这些玩意儿的，也不知道他们想拿这些武器干什么。
Lilya: Don't know how, don't know why. Nobody does.

谢尔盖：这还不好猜吗？！他们当然是要去打劫村子……这可糟了，村子里留守的那点人可遭不住这种火力。
Sergey: Well, it isn't hard to guess. They're obviously going to rob the villages! Wait. This is bad. All the young and fit have gone to war. They won't be able to defend themselves.

青年哥萨克脸上的阴云来了又去，他的心很快被另一个念头占据。
For a moment, a dark cloud falls upon his face. But soon, it's lightened by another idea.

谢尔盖：我听说咱们队下午没有安排，你要不要和我一起去河边网点鱼？
Sergey: Hey, no orders this afternoon, right? Want to go fishing with me? I'm going to the river.

红弩箭：在这种时候捞鱼？你不怕会被人一枪打死吗？
Lilya: Now? You forget that bullet so quick?

谢尔盖：我知道安全的地方，再说，我随身带着护身符，子弹打不死我的。
Sergey: I know a safe place where we can fish, and I've got the amulet! There's no bullet that can kill me. Trust me.

谢尔盖：就算是在打仗，没有东西吃也不行。虽然麦子不长了，但河里一定还有不少鱼。
Sergey: You're not going to tell me you're full after that sorry excuse for a soup, are you? There may not be any crops, but I bet there are still plenty of fish in the river.

红弩箭以审视的目光查看谢尔盖据说中弹了的小腿。
Lilya checks Sergey's allegedly shot leg.

红弩箭：我记得你腿肚子不是被打坏了吗，这就能去捞鱼了？
Lilya: Weren't you just wailing about your leg a few hours ago?

谢尔盖：这、这没什么妨碍的！
Sergey: It-It's no big deal!

谢尔盖几口扒拉完最后的食物，放下碗跑远了。
He finishes the last of his food, drops the bowl, and jogs away.

红弩箭：呵，我看顶多就是被擦破了一点皮。
Lilya: "Shot in the leg." Pft. More like scratched.

干热的风袭来，被压到不满半人高的针茅草形成层叠的、沙沙作响的浪涌。
The arid wind blows the needlegrass into a sea of rustling waves.

安德烈森：咴～
Andreas: Neigh—

这里是马儿的乐园，但却会让疲于奔命的逃亡者叫苦不迭。
A horse's playground. But for a fugitive on a long run from the authorities, it's hell.

梅蕾尔：卡戎，离开大路之后，我们已经走了多远？
Merel: *sigh* Charon, how far have we gone since we left the road?

在辽阔的草原上游走，通常会陷入数小时不见人烟的困境。光靠无垠的草浪无法判断自己究竟身处何方。
On the open grassland, one might travel for hours without seeing another soul. Among the endless waves of grass, it's easy to lose your way.

卡戎：按照平时步行的速度，我们应该是往东南走了十五公里，但也许现在我们的速度要比之前更慢。
Charon: Fifteen kilometers southeast, perhaps less. Our speed is slower than usual.

卡戎：你累了吗，要不要休息一下？
Charon: Are you weary? Would you like to rest?

梅蕾尔：唉，再往前走走吧，这里怎么看都不像是能休息的地方……你觉得车夫给我们的地图可靠吗？
Merel: Um, maybe later. This doesn't seem like the best place for a break. Do you think this map is reliable? The one the cart driver gave us?

卡戎：你说的是哪一个车夫？
Charon: The cart driver?

梅蕾尔：……
Merel: ...

梅蕾尔：我还是再帮你回忆一下之前发生的事吧，这已经是第不知道多少次了，卡戎。
Merel: Alright, I'll refresh your memory one more time, or should I say, for the millionth time.

梅蕾尔：就从离开波兰之后说起，我们稀里糊涂地搭上了一辆满是捷克斯洛伐克人的火车，和他们一起往东走。
Merel: It all started after we left Poland. Somehow, we got ourselves on a train heading east—the one full of Czechoslovakians.

卡戎：是因为稀里糊涂吗？好像是他们告诉你，再往东走就不会见到黑衣的军队，然后你就吵着要上车了。
Charon: Memories of you insisting they let us aboard the train because "you can avoid the soldiers in black in the East" come to mind.

梅蕾尔：噢……这你倒记得了。总之他们让我们上车，可还没走多远，火车就被另一伙不知道是什么的人拦下来了。
Merel: Of course you'd remember that of all things. Anyway, so we got on the train, but before we could get too far, it was stopped by some group.

梅蕾尔：再之后，到处都是枪响。我们去载马的车厢把安德烈森救走，趁乱往南逃了。
Merel: A fight must've broken out, because there were gunshots everywhere. It was utter bedlam, so we grabbed Andreas from the stock car and slipped away south.

安德烈森：咴咴……
Andreas: Neigh ...

战马对那场惊心动魄的营救行动仍然心存感激。
The warhorse seems grateful for the daring rescue.

梅蕾尔：之后就是我说的那个车夫，他丢了一匹马。
Merel: That's when we met the cart driver I mentioned. He'd lost a horse.

梅蕾尔：我们和他商量了一个办法——安德烈森借他拉一天的车，而他要告诉我们往哪里走更安全。
Merel: So we made a deal: we'd lend him Andreas for the day, and he'd take us somewhere safe.

卡戎：那么，这确实是一个安全的地方，四周都很安宁。
Charon: Then he has fulfilled his promise. This is indeed a peaceful and safe place.

梅蕾尔：但我要的安全不是这种啊！——再找不到有人的地方，我们，不对，只有我会饿死在路上的。
Merel: Hardly! We're in the middle of bloody nowhere! If we can't find people soon, we'll—no, I'll—starve to death!

不用进食的亡者低下头，仿佛是在为自己考虑不周而失落。安德烈森也别过脑袋——它倒是能靠嚼草根过活。
Charon lowers his head, troubled by his failure to consider the needs of the living. Andreas also turns his head aside. He can live off the grassland alone.

梅蕾尔：别这样啊，我又不是在怪你们……算了，除了往前走也没有什么更好的办法。
Merel: Oh, n-not to blame you two. *sigh* Forget it. Guess there's nothing for it but to keep moving forwards.

她再次举起极尽潦草的手绘地图，用尽了全部的想象力，才从混乱的线条中辨认出一条河的形状。
She lifts the messy, hand-drawn map again, squinting to make out the shape of a river among its chaotic lines.

梅蕾尔：他说我们可以到渡河口村找他的侄子，就在顿河边……可到底哪条河才是顿河？
Merel: He said we could find his niece in Perevoznaya by the Don River. But which one is the Don?

梅蕾尔：假定我们的确没有走错路，再假定车夫的地图比例没有太过夸张，呃……安德烈森？
Merel: *sigh* If we're even going in the right direction, that is, or if this map is actually accurate. Um, Andreas?

安德烈森：咴咴？
Andreas: Neigh?

梅蕾尔：让我在你背上站一会儿，好吗？
Merel: Could I stand on your back for a minute?

黑马屈膝下伏，少女四肢并用爬上马背。
Andreas lowers himself, allowing the girl to clamber onto his back.

随后，人和马一同站起，梅蕾尔双腿颤抖着立在马背上。
Then, they both rise at the same time, Merel's feet trembling.

卡戎：你在做什么，梅蕾尔？你会摔下来的。
Charon: What are you doing, Merel? You could fall.

梅蕾尔：我、我没事，我——我要摔下来的时候，你、你可要接住我。
Merel: I-I'm fine. Just be ready to *grunt* catch me if I fall, alright?

梅蕾尔哆哆嗦嗦地举起从途经的一座废墟中捡来的望远镜，向她认为的东方看去。
Merel shakily detaches the telescope she picked up in some ruins from her belt and looks toward what she believes to be the east.

梅蕾尔：是在哪儿……这边什么也没有，全都是草，树林……
Merel: Where could it be? All I see is grass and trees.

梅蕾尔：另一边呢？……另一边——嗯？
Merel: Alright, other side, other side. *gasp*

梅蕾尔：卡、卡戎，我好像看到屋顶了！就在前面，你——
Merel: Ch-Charon! Charon, I see rooftops! Right ahead! You—

梅蕾尔：救命！
Merel: Wah! Help!

少女激动得手舞足蹈，如预料之中的那般失去了平衡。
She hops in excitement and, as expected, loses her balance.

12TH-03 交汇口 / Intersection

渡河口青年：你说你从马上摔下来了？——哈，没关系，这种事就连威风的阿塔曼都一定经历过。
Young Villager: You fell off your horse? Haha, I wouldn't worry. I bet even the mighty Ataman has fallen once or twice.

身穿制服的青年来到一棵高大而无果的梨树下，将一碗蒸熟的麦饭端给眼巴巴看着他的逃难少女。
The young man in uniform comes to the tall, fruitless pear tree Merel is seated under and offers her a bowl of steamed rice mixed with wheat. She gazes at him longingly.

渡河口青年：给，谢谢你们帮我叔叔拉了一天车，不过我们家没有更多东西可以吃了。
Young Villager: Here you are. Thanks again for helping my uncle with his cart. I know it's not much, but this is all we have right now.

梅蕾尔：这……
Merel: I ...

她伸出一只手，又尴尬地收了回去。
She reaches out a hand, then pulls it back awkwardly.

梅蕾尔：对不起，我不知道这里的情况这么糟。在我来的路上，还听人说这里的收成很好，粮食很多……
Merel: I'm sorry. I thought I heard you had a strong harvest this year.

渡河口青年：前几年情况还不错。虽然很多人出去打仗了，但地里的粮食没有亏待我们。
Young Villager: The past few years were good. It's true. People had to leave to fight, but the land still blessed us.

渡河口青年：不过今年冬天可真是怪了，刚播种没多久，这小麦就疯长成了这个模样。只看见田里金灿灿的一片，但就是没收成。
Young Villager: But this year has been strange. Certainly the winter. Soon after planting, the wheat grew wild. The fields are gold, yes, but there's no grain.

他嘴上抱怨着歉收的粮食，但还是把碗塞进梅蕾尔手里。
Even as he speaks of the failed crops, he still hands the bowl to Merel.

渡河口青年：你把这碗饭吃了吧，不用管我。我要到骑兵军去当兵，那里的饭管够。
Young Villager: Eat. You look starving. I've enlisted with the cavalry. There will be plenty enough food for me there.

梅蕾尔：骑兵军？
Merel: The cavalry?

渡河口青年：芝诺骑兵军。
Young Villager: The Zeno Cavalry.

梅蕾尔：——？！
Merel: ...?!

饥肠辘辘的逃兵把一声“芝诺”的惊呼憋进了肚子，埋下头开始吃麦饭。
Merel forces her cry of "Zeno" down, lowers her head, and begins to eat.

青年转向一直躲在树后阴影中的影子。
The young man turns toward the shadow that has been hiding behind the tree.

渡河口青年：你真的不用吃东西吗？
Young Villager: Are you sure you wouldn't like any food?

卡戎：我不用，感谢你愿意分享仅剩不多的食物，我能为你做些什么，来交换这份好意？
Charon: I need no sustenance. Thank you for sharing the little food you have left. How may this kindness be repaid?

渡河口青年：不必，我马上就和村里的新兵一起走了，我家也没有活可以干。
Young Villager: Ah, no need. I'll be leaving soon, and there's no work to do right now.

渡河口青年：你的马倒是漂亮得很，我希望也有一匹这么好的马……别误会，不是问你们要这匹马的意思。
Young Villager: You have a beautiful horse. Wish I could have one as lovely as him. Oh, don't get me wrong. I'm not asking for him.

芝诺征兵官：——阿列克谢。
Zeno Conscription Officer: Alexei.

充满长官威严的声音在不远处叫住了新兵。
A commanding voice stops the new recruit mid-sentence.

芝诺征兵官：你还在这里闲逛什么？我们马上要出发了，你又和什么人在说话？
Zeno Conscription Officer: What are you dawdling for? The team is leaving. Who are you talking to?

渡河口青年：只是两个难民，长官。
Young Villager: Just two refugees, sir.

征兵官凑近来观察，他的目光在身披白布的怪异流亡者身上停留了许久。
The conscription officer steps forward, his eyes lingering on the strange man covered in white cloth.

芝诺征兵官：难民？从哪儿来的？
Zeno Conscription Officer: Refugees? From where?

梅蕾尔：我是从……波兰过来的，本来想在那里找个……朋友，但是那里也还在打仗，朋友也找不到……
Merel: F-From Poland. I was looking for a friend there, but because of the war, I couldn't find ... um ...

她猛烈地眨着眼，为蹩脚的谎言而心虚。
She stammers, blinking wildly over her clumsy lie.

所幸，心不在焉的征兵官没有看出她的窘迫。
Fortunately, the officer is too distracted to notice her embarrassment.

芝诺征兵官：你们都是神秘学家？——如果有一技之长的话，可以加入芝诺骑兵军，包管你们有吃有住。
Zeno Conscription Officer: Arcanists, aren't you? We could use your talents in the Zeno Cavalry. Room, board, and meals provided.

卡戎：不用在乎我，先生，我只是一个没有目的的游荡者，也不想加入任何一支军队。
Charon: Apologies, sir. I am only a wanderer. There is no desire to join any party within me.

梅蕾尔：我、我没什么擅长的，军官先生。我连枪都没用过。
Merel: A-And I-I don't have any talents at all, officer. Sir, I can't even hold a gun.

第二个试图把自己从乱世中摘出去的谎言。征兵官的注意力依旧不在她的身上。
Another lie erupts from her—another bid to escape desperate times. But the conscription officer takes no interest.

芝诺征兵官：那你们最好快点离开。现在草原上到处都是土匪，真不知道你们怎么会往这里跑。
Zeno Conscription Officer: Then you'd better leave soon. This place is crawling with bandits.

梅蕾尔：土匪？
Merel: Bandits?

芝诺征兵官：是啊，你们路上都没遇到过吗？呵，算你们命大，当然，也有骑兵军清剿得当的功劳。
Zeno Conscription Officer: Brigands, raiders, ruffians. You didn't bump into any on your way here? Lucky dogs. Though you can thank the Cavalry Corps for that.

芝诺征兵官：不过最近的情况又要变糟了，匪军不知道从哪里搞来了新武器，也许又要和他们打一场大仗。
Zeno Conscription Officer: But even with our efforts, the situation's been getting worse. Somehow, they've got new weapons. We might be facing a serious battle.

梅蕾尔：怎么到了这里还在……打仗……
Merel: Even all this way away, there's still fighting?

芝诺征兵官：天下没有太平的地方。
芝诺需要新鲜的血液，这样我们才能打败敌人，迎来和平。
Zeno Conscription Officer: The flames of conflict burn everywhere. This is why I'm asking you to join us. Zeno needs new blood if we're to ever know peace.

芝诺征兵官：要是改了主意，想为骑兵军服务，就沿着顿河向下游走，过了城就能看见我们的营地。
Zeno Conscription Officer: If you change your mind, come to our camp. It's downstream of the Don, past the city.

征兵官背过身去，此时，又有十几个新入伍的哥萨克聚集在他身后，三五成群地与熟悉的人站在一起。
The conscription officer turns around. Just then, a dozen newly enlisted Cossacks gather behind him, standing in the little groups of those they know.

他们互相显摆着新制服，攀比着谁家的马照顾得更好，谁家的马刀来历更传奇。
They show off their new uniforms, competing over who takes better care of his horse and whose shashka has the most legendary history.

芝诺征兵官：好了，别像小鸡仔一样围成一团，地上有米给你们啄吗？全体都有，成行军纵队——
Zeno Conscription Officer: Quit milling around like chickens and form rank—

芝诺骑兵：——长官！
Zeno Cavalryman: Sir!

村外，一名全副武装的骑兵狂奔而来，一头扎进了惊慌失措的新兵队列中。
A fully armed cavalryman gallops in from outside the village, plunging himself between the panicking ranks of recruits.

他半截身子浸在发黑的血污中，胯下的战马因长途奔跑而不断喷打鼻息。
Half of his body is smeared dark with blood, the horse beneath him snorting heavily.

芝诺骑兵：匪军——一支匪军的骑兵队正在来渡河口村的路上，估计有一个排。我们怎么办？
Zeno Cavalryman: Bandit cavalry incoming. The size of a platoon! What do we do?

芝诺征兵官：你还能骑马吗？
Zeno Conscription Officer: Can you still ride?

芝诺骑兵：撑得住。
Zeno Cavalryman: Yes, sir!

芝诺征兵官：那你快马赶回塞契通报，我和其他人留在村内拦住匪军。
Zeno Conscription Officer: Then hurry to the sich and report this. The rest of you form a blockade. Do not allow the bandits to enter the village.

芝诺骑兵：是！
Zeno Cavalryman: Sir, yes, sir!

征兵官环视一圈，入伍不足半小时的年轻人们神色慌张，将他这个“长官”视作唯一的救世主。
The conscription officer scans the area. The unsettled young cavalrymen, enlisted less than half an hour ago, look to him as if he is their only savior.

芝诺征兵官：新兵，不要逃跑，这只会让你们把后背暴露给敌人！
——拿起你们的枪，掩护你们的家人撤离！
Zeno Conscription Officer: Rookies, there is no escape! Turn your back to the enemy, and they will take the opportunity! Take up your weapons! Protect your families!

惊慌失措的新兵们得到指令，不再像年幼的草原兔那样挤成一团，纷纷生疏地扛起了武器。
The boys shake off their scared looks, leaving their huddled groups and shouldering their weapons, albeit a little clumsily.

梅蕾尔：什么……匪军？！
Merel: What? Bandits?

大脑一片空白，梅蕾尔感觉到卡戎把缰绳递到自己手上。
As Merel's mind goes blank, she feels Charon press the reins into her hands.

卡戎：让安德烈森带你离开这里，梅蕾尔。
Charon: Let Andreas take you. Leave here, Merel.

梅蕾尔：可是你怎么办？
Merel: What? What about you?

卡戎：你说过，遇见危险就会自己逃跑。请不要浪费时间。
Charon: "I'll just run off when danger comes." That is what you said. Do not waste any more time.

梅蕾尔：但是我都不知道应该往哪里走——
Merel: I don't even know where to—

卡戎：往下游去，梅蕾尔，就像军官说的，一路沿着河跑，快。
Charon: Downstream of the Don River, like the officer said. Now go.

梅蕾尔：我、我快掉下去了，安德烈森！
Merel: Andreas! I-I'm slipping!!

安德烈森：咴——！
Andreas: Neigh—!

少女四肢并用，紧紧扒在尽全力奔跑的黑马背上，甚至无法抽出一只手拿出武器还击。
She clings to the horse with all her might as he charges at full speed. She can't even spare a hand to draw her weapon and fight back.

？？？：别让她跑了！——开枪！
???: Don't let her get away! Fire!

一连串劈啪作响的子弹声在她耳旁炸开。
A series of crackling gunshots blasts past her on all sides.

梅蕾尔：不——不要啊！安德烈森，我抓得住！快跑！
Merel: Ah! Run, Andreas, run! I'll hold on. Go!

安德烈森：咴！
Andreas: Neigh!

？？？：她那马过不去顿河！散开，我们围住她。
???: She can't cross the Don! Spread out and surround her!

梅蕾尔：什么？什么河？
Merel: What? The-The Don?

她鼓起勇气，睁开眼，才发现一条宽阔的河流横亘在逃亡的路上。
She gathers her courage and opens her eyes, only to find a broad river blocking her escape.

梅蕾尔：完、完蛋了！
Merel: Oh. Oh no!

她的脑子一片空白，安德烈森也不得不在汹涌的河水前放慢了脚步。
Her mind goes blank again. Andreas can only slow down before the rushing water.

？？？：她慢下来了，你们别开枪，小心伤到马。
???: She's slowing down. Don't shoot. You might hit that beauty she's riding.

？？？：我把人打下来，这匹马就归我。
???: I'll take her out, and I'll get the horse.

梅蕾尔：——啊！
Merel: Aaargh!

她的手臂仿佛被一只巨锤狠狠锤击，马背上的少女失去了平衡，从一侧摔了下去。
It's like a hammer has struck her arm. She loses her balance and falls to one side.

黑暗而冰冷的河水在一瞬间将她吞没，随后，手臂上的枪伤爆发出撕心裂肺的疼痛感。
Dark, freezing water swallows her in an instant, followed by the piercing pain of a bullet.

梅蕾尔：不……不要——唔——唔咕咕咕咕……
Merel: No. Don't ... *gulp*

她昏迷过去。
The shimmering light through the water above turns dark.

斯捷尔诺娃：——军长。
Sternova: Commander.

一声通报之后，参谋长进入营帐。
The chief of staff enters the tent.

军长伊万：说。
Commander Ivan: Speak.

军长的声音有些干哑，但斯捷尔诺娃还是一口气吐出她准备好的汇报内容。
The commander's voice is hoarse, yet Sternova delivers her report without pause.

斯捷尔诺娃：渡河口村已经失陷了，我们不知道战斗之后的情况，但一定不会乐观。难民说在身后看见了房屋燃烧的浓烟。
Sternova: Perevoznaya is lost. We don't know the details of the situation, but it's surely devastating. The refugees said they saw a huge smoke cloud coming from the village.

斯捷尔诺娃：至少有另外三个定居点遭到匪军的袭击，据幸存者说，敌人拥有许多他们没有见过的武器。
Sternova: At least three settlements have been attacked. The survivors say the weapons employed were unconventional.

军长伊万：……
Commander Ivan: ...

斯捷尔诺娃：遇袭的村庄都在上游，别列格勒城东北。我认为应当快速将骑兵军主力部署到以下位置，好抢占有利地形。
Sternova: The villages struck are all upstream from here, northeast of Bereggrad. I suggest we quickly position the main force here, here, and here to seize advantageous terrain.

参谋长在桌面的军用地图上指出几个早已构思好的地点，却发现骑兵军指挥官的目光无法在地图上集中。
The chief of staff points out the positions on the military map spread across the table, only to find the commander's focus is elsewhere.

那沉重的空气还是不可阻挡地将斯捷尔诺娃包裹，打断了她进一步的战术构想。
The heavy air closes in around Sternova. She falters.

斯捷尔诺娃：军长？
Sternova: Sir?

军长伊万：芝诺指挥部给我下过命令了，莎宾娜。
Commander Ivan: Headquarters has spoken.

斯捷尔诺娃：那他们怎么说？——指挥部不至于干涉骑兵军怎么执行具体战术吧？
Sternova: What did they say? They wouldn't interfere with the Cavalry Corps's tactics, would they?

军长伊万：骑兵军要在两周内从顿河撤离，下个月，我们就会在匈牙利与重塑之手交战。
Commander Ivan: We withdraw from the Don in two weeks. We will engage Manus Vindictae in Hungary next month.

军人的本能使她无法第一时间理解这则命令。
Her military instincts prevent her from making sense of this order.

斯捷尔诺娃：我……没听懂，军长。指挥部知道现在的情况吗？有一支匪军在外烧杀抢掠，骑兵军却要在两周内离开？
Sternova: I ... I don't understand, sir. Bandits are killing and robbing civilians in higher numbers than ever, and we've just been told to leave? Are you certain headquarters is fully aware of the situation?

军长伊万：他们知道得比我们更多。情报部门的结论是，我们有很大概率遇上了伊戈尔本人的军队。
Commander Ivan: They are more aware than any of us. Intelligence gave their conclusion. We've stumbled upon Igor's army.

斯捷尔诺娃：那他们应该派援军来，和骑兵军一起消灭叛军，而不是让我们逃跑。
Sternova: Then they should send reinforcements, end the rebels once and for all, not ask us to run away with our tails between our legs!

军长伊万：现在全世界的重塑之手军队都在往基金会总部进军，前线的压力非常大，我们不会得到任何援军。
Commander Ivan: There are no reinforcements. Manus Vindictae's army marches on the Foundation headquarters as we speak. The front is under immense pressure.

军长伊万：何况骑兵军原本的任务，就是在顿河地区招募到足够多的新兵之后，去缓解总部防线的压力。
Commander Ivan: Don't forget that our mission here was to recruit new blood to bolster headquarters defenses.

军长伊万：至于伊戈尔——他在南极行动之后就脱离了重塑之手，双方似乎是完成了什么交易，但具体细节未知。
Commander Ivan: As for Igor—he cut ties with Manus Vindictae after Antarctica. They say some kind of bargain was struck, though the terms remain unknown.

军长伊万：自那之后，叛军就没有与基金会和芝诺发生过冲突，而联合委员会的高层希望保持这种互相中立的状态。
Commander Ivan: Since then, the rebels have crossed no blades with either the Foundation or Zeno. The Joint Committee wants to keep it that way.

斯捷尔诺娃：也就是说，如果我们面对的真的是伊戈尔，反而要避免和他起冲突？
Sternova: So, they want us to leave so we won't fight Igor?

军长伊万：没错。
Commander Ivan: Correct.

斯捷尔诺娃：鬼扯！基金会——尤其是“鹰派”的人——拿叛军的事来贬低芝诺，另一边又想和伊戈尔拉近关系？
Sternova: To hell! All this time, the Foundation, especially those Hawks, has been belittling Zeno for Igor's betrayal, yet here they are, still trying to stay in his good graces?!

军长伊万：对政治家来说，这两件事并不矛盾。
Commander Ivan: Politicians, Sabina. For them, the two don't clash.

斯捷尔诺娃：我烦透这一切了，这些——这些该死的政客，什么狗屁基金会、什么鸟派别、伊里内伊，还有——
Sternova: Politicians, ha! I'm sick to death of the conniving bastards! To hell with the Foundation, to hell with those ridiculous bird parties, to hell with Irinei, and to hell with—

军长伊万：——莎宾娜。
Commander Ivan: Sabina.

名字的发音中带上了警告的意味，但这并没有阻止斯捷尔诺娃说出接下来的话。
The hint of warning in his tone fails to stop her.

斯捷尔诺娃：——还有红弩箭，名义上是提供空中支援，但我看得出派她来是带着怎样的目的。
Sternova: —Their lapdog, Lilya! "Air support"? Don't make me laugh. I know why they sent her!

斯捷尔诺娃：有芝诺和基金会的双重编制，有基金会的大人物给她做担保，档案里还写着“经调查后可确保忠诚可靠”。
Sternova: She's both Zeno and Foundation. Her file says "loyalty guaranteed after investigation."

斯捷尔诺娃：所以她被派来监视你——监视我们所有人——的一举一动，生怕顿河变成又一个“圣保罗”。
Sternova: She's a surveillant! A Foundation babysitter monitoring you, me, everyone, so the Don doesn't become the next São Paulo!

斯捷尔诺娃：我们不应该受到这样的侮辱，芝诺也不应该向所谓的“鹰派”委员低头。
Sternova: It's an insult! A humiliation! Zeno should never have to yield to those so-called Hawks!

军长伊万：——斯捷尔诺娃上校，难道政治也让你头脑发热了吗？！
Commander Ivan: Colonel Sabina Sternova! Have you lost your senses?

温和的警告无效，军长出口的话已转变为训斥。
His gentle warning proving ineffective, the commander turns to harsh reprimand.

斯捷尔诺娃：……
Sternova: ...

军长伊万：你对红弩箭的指控是有证据支持，还是只是因为她有基金会的身份？
Commander Ivan: Do you accuse Lieutenant Lilya based on proof? Or only because of her ties to the Foundation?

斯捷尔诺娃：我……
Sternova: I ...

军长的嘴唇紧紧抿在一起，艰难蠕动着，仿佛是在咀嚼一块铁片。
The commander purses his lips, his jaw grinding as if he were chewing on a piece of steel.

他俯身，从一堆文件中抽出一张已经揉皱了的信纸，递过桌面。斯捷尔诺娃疑惑地皱着眉，接了过去。
He bends down, draws out a crumpled letter, and passes it across the table. Sternova takes it, her brows knitting together.

斯捷尔诺娃：“伊万：伊里内伊的人做到了，芝诺的结局无可避免。我附信来只是想以私人身份给予你一些提醒。”
Sternova: "Ivan, Irinei's people have done it. Zeno's fate is inevitable. I write this letter only as a reminder from one friend to another."

斯捷尔诺娃：“联合委员会正在加紧对芝诺军队的控制，每位外派的将领身边，都必须要有一位基金会信得过的联络人。”
Sternova: "The Joint Committee is tightening its control over Zeno's military operations. Every commander stationed outside of HQ must be accompanied by a liaison entrusted by the Foundation."

斯捷尔诺娃：“你曾是伊戈尔最信赖的下属，原本光凭这一条，‘鹰派’就要在庭审上把你折磨得够呛。”
Sternova: "You were once Igor's most trusted subordinate. For that reason alone, the Hawks were planning to torture you during the trial."

斯捷尔诺娃：“我能做的，就是在委员会面前担保你的忠诚，并且派给你一个最不适合担当联络员的飞行女巫。”
Sternova: "All I could do was assure the Committee of your loyalty and assign the least capable liaison to you—the flying witch."

斯捷尔诺娃：“你一定听过她的名字和事迹。她对政治毫无兴趣，不会乱打报告，甚至在某些行事风格上还与你相似。”
Sternova: "I'm sure you've heard this title before. She has no interest in politics, never writes reports unless forced to, and, in many ways, shares your temperament."

斯捷尔诺娃：“前提是你不要真的干出什么蠢事，你要严格执行每一条命令——芝诺的命令，现在就是基金会的命令。”
Sternova: "That said, ensure you strictly follow every order, both from Zeno and the Foundation. We must be smart."

斯捷尔诺娃：“你担负的责任比你想的还要多，不要让我们所有人都难堪。——索姆。”
Sternova: "The burden on you is much heavier than you realize. Do not embarrass us. Somme."

信纸被放下。室内一时间没了声音。
The letter is set down. Silence falls.

几次心跳后，一阵含混不清的呐喊穿过军用帆布透入室内——那是营地里的哥萨克们正在与一匹烈马搏斗。
After a few heartbeats, muffled shouts carry through the canvas. The Cossacks are struggling with a fierce horse.

斯捷尔诺娃：我会……安排撤出顿河的准备工作，如果这是你的决定。
Sternova: I ... I'll begin preparations for the withdrawal, if that is your order.

疲惫不堪的军长长叹一口气。
The commander lets out a long, weary sigh.

军长伊万：命令的详细要求是，所有骑兵军士兵在别列格勒城内集结，依托城市固守，在撤离前的两周内保护城市安全。
Commander Ivan: *sigh* Orders are to assemble all cavalrymen in Bereggrad. We hold the city for two weeks. Then, we withdraw.

斯捷尔诺娃：既然我们要走了，保护别列格勒又是为了什么？
Sternova: We're withdrawing anyway. Why risk the two weeks?

军长伊万：为了司辰。
Commander Ivan: For the safety of the Timekeeper.

斯捷尔诺娃：司辰？
Sternova: The Timekeeper?

Z：我们已经和骑兵军取得联系。红弩箭中尉的通讯设备在战斗中被损坏，但是她本人安全回到了驻地。
Z: We've contacted the Cavalry Corps in the Don River basin. Lieutenant Lilya's communication device was damaged during the battle, but she has returned to her post safely.

维尔汀：那太好了。
Vertin: That's a relief.

Z：但根据她的汇报，伊戈尔的叛军出现在东线应该是确有其事。
Z: However, according to her report, it's all but confirmed that Igor's rebels have shown up at the Eastern Front.

Z：维尔汀，关于前往别列格勒的计划，是否有待商榷？那里很可能将爆发一场新的战争。
Z: Vertin, is it possible to delay your plans to travel to Bereggrad? A conflict is highly likely to break out there.

没有必要在少数值得信赖的人面前隐藏情报。
There's no need to hide intel from the trusted few.

维尔汀：刻雷乌斯私下给了我一份有关兀尔德的情报，就在别列格勒城中。我不清楚这有多可靠。
Vertin: Creius privately conveyed to me a message about Urd. It said there's some information to be gleaned about her in Bereggrad. I'm not sure how dependable it is.

维尔汀：但事关兀尔德的行踪，我想我必须去一趟。
Vertin: But since it concerns Urd's whereabouts, I have no choice but to go.

Z：很高兴你愿意向我透露情报来源，可是……刻雷乌斯？
Z: I appreciate you sharing the source of your information with me, but, Creius?

Z女士罕见地露出了惊讶的神情。
Madam Z betrays a rare look of surprise.

Z：南极行动前，他只是基金会军事部的传令官，执行着基金会与芝诺行动部队间的沟通与调度工作。
Z: Before the Antarctic Operation, he was just a liaison of the Foundation's military department, responsible for communication and coordination between the Foundation and the Zeno Task Force.

Z：虽然在本次“暴雨”时代中得到了重用，可……
Z: He got promoted after we entered this era, but ...

Z：在基金会内部，兀尔德的一切信息都被严格控制，只能在小部分必要人员间传阅。
Z: All information held by the Foundation concerning Urd is strictly controlled, only accessible to the authorized few.

Z：以刻雷乌斯的职位来说，他并不在此列。
Z: And he's not one of them.

Z：更可能的是，“鹰派”希望利用你去取得他们无法合规获得的情报，刻雷乌斯则充当他们避险的中介。
Z: More likely than not, this information came directly from the Hawks. They're using you to obtain information they can't legally acquire themselves, and Creius is their intermediary.

维尔汀：从第八次“暴雨”以来，寻找兀尔德一直就是我的主要任务。
Vertin: Locating Urd has been my primary mission since the eighth "Storm."

维尔汀：如果这一切对基金会的行动是有利的呢？
Vertin: A mission that may prove useful to the Foundation, don't you think?

Z：如果这份情报真的能让你找到兀尔德的下落，那么按常理来说，是的，它对所有人都是一个好消息。
Z: If this information really does help you find Urd, then yes, it would be good news for everyone, no matter their affiliation.

Z：但你或许会因此欠下一份“人情”。在未来的某个时刻，“鹰派”会以此胁迫你站在他们那边。
Z: But in the Hawks' eyes, you'd owe them one. They might hold this over you if and when the time comes for you to choose a side.

Z：加之司辰小队的权责扩大也是在“鹰派”主导下实现的，那么，外人难免会以此判断你作为司辰的立场。
Z: What's more, the expansion of Team Timekeeper was spearheaded by the Hawks. It's only natural that people are starting to doubt the Timekeeper's neutrality.

Z女士的嗓音变得柔和而循循善诱，她真切地希望眼前人不会被困于政治的漩涡。
Madam Z's voice is gentle but persuasive. She sincerely hopes the young lady before her will not be drawn into the whirlpool of politics.

Z：我知道你没有任何政治倾向，可是，“鹰派”正在用各种手段塑造你在与他们合作的印象。
Z: I know you have no political inclinations, but the Hawks are creating an image that you're working with them.

Z：我说这些不是想阻拦你的行动，维尔汀，只是想提醒你基金会内部正在发生的事。
Z: I'm not saying this to stop you, Vertin. I simply want to keep you abreast of what's happening inside the Foundation.

维尔汀：……谢谢，Z女士，我已经做好了面对这些的准备。
Vertin: Thank you, Madam Z. I'm ready for whatever lies ahead.

维尔汀：我申请前往别列格勒。
Vertin: Please accept my official application to travel to Bereggrad.

只有亲身踏入洪流，才能看清水底的秘密。
Only by stepping into the flood can one uncover the secrets hidden beneath the water.

Z：我明白了。
Z: I see.

Z：索姆将军接受了联合委员会的劝诫，命令骑兵军优先保护城市。在一段时间内，别列格勒应该是安全的。
Z: After the Joint Committee's admonition, Admiral Somme ordered the Cavalry Corps to prioritize the safety of the city. Bereggrad should be safe for a time.

维尔汀：联合委员会现在对伊戈尔是什么态度？
Vertin: What's the Committee's attitude towards Igor now?

Z：伊戈尔的确是我们的敌人，但从西线的战报来看，他目前没有与重塑之手联合行动。
Z: Igor is the enemy. However, reports from the Western Front state he's no longer working with the Manus.

Z：伊戈尔的动机现在正在重新评判中，但联合委员会希望减少树敌——我们与芝诺间的关系，自真正的战争开始后就变得有些岌岌可危。
Z: We're currently re-evaluating Igor's motivations. That said, the Committee does hope to avoid making enemies. Our relationship with Zeno has become somewhat fragile since the real war began.

Z：我会批准你的这次外勤。
Z: Permission granted, Timekeeper.

Z：去收拾行囊吧，我会让莎朗把必要的文书送给十四行诗。
Z: Pack your bags. I'll have Sharon deliver the paperwork to Sonetto.

维尔汀：谢谢，我会尽量在战争爆发之前回来。
Vertin: Thank you, Madam Z. I'll do my best to return before the war breaks out.

转身走出几步后，身后传来一声轻轻的叹息。
As she turns, a soft sigh comes from behind her.

Z：你向来有自己的想法，维尔汀。我希望你能保持着这样的自我，它在这个时代尤其珍贵。
Z: *sigh* You always follow your own judgment, Vertin. A precious quality in this era. I hope it never changes.

12TH-04 寂静所笼罩的 / Beneath the Silence

谢尔盖：嘿，我捞着东西了！快过来帮把手，萨沙！
Sergey: Hey! I got something! Sasha, come give me a hand!

在距离营地不远的河边，出来为连队饮马的谢尔盖仍在坚持不懈地捞鱼——草原上酝酿的危险还没有吓退他。
Not far from the camp, Sergey has been watering the horses while he fishes, undeterred by the danger brewing across the steppe.

去年没能偷到手的渔网，在离乡时还是出现在了谢尔盖的行囊里，老索莫夫亲手装进去的。
The fishnet he failed to steal last year ended up in his pack before he left home. Old Somov put it there himself.

芝诺骑兵Ⅰ：我抓住了——该死的，这网真沉。
Zeno Cavalryman I: Got it! Dear Lord, this is heavy!

谢尔盖：这证明我们捞到真正的大东西了，快，使点劲啊，萨沙！
Sergey: Must be a big one. Come on, Sasha, put your back into it.

两个在河畔长大的青年用尽全身的力气，才刚刚足够将激流中的渔网缓缓拖向岸边。
The two young men, children of this very river, use all their strength to drag the fishnet to the riverbank.

芝诺骑兵Ⅰ：谢尔盖，你见过力气这么大的鱼吗？
Zeno Cavalryman I: Have you ever caught a fish this big before?

谢尔盖：从来没有，地里的麦子不长了，鱼倒是在疯长。
Sergey: Never! The fish done all the growing this year instead of the crops?

谢尔盖：就差一点，别废话了，你抓好网的另一头，听我的——一，二，三！
Sergey: Just a bit further. Grab tight. On my mark. One! Two! Three!

捕鱼者向后栽倒，而渔网里的重物也终于被拖上了岸。
They stumble back as they finally haul the net ashore.

芝诺骑兵Ⅰ：快去看看，这到底是什么东西——我打赌，我爷爷这辈子都没见过这种鱼。
Zeno Cavalryman I: Go check it out. I dare say even my grandpa has never seen fish so big.

谢尔盖首先跑到网边，手法熟练地解开纠缠的网绳。
Sergey runs to the net and untangles the cords like an expert.

？？？：咳……
???: *cough*

怎么听这都不像是鱼类能发出来的声音。
That's not a sound a fish would make.

谢尔盖：啊？这是，这——
Sergey: Huh? Thi-This is—

？？？：咳——咳！
???: *cough*

芝诺骑兵Ⅰ：到底是什么鱼啊，谢尔盖？
Zeno Cavalryman I: What kind of fish is it, Sergey?

伙伴还在远处，正揣着巨大的好奇心往谢尔盖身边赶来。
Sasha hurries over to join him.

谢尔盖：我的老天爷，萨沙，这、这是一个人？！
Sergey: I'll be damned! Sasha! It's a person?

芝诺骑兵Ⅰ：一个人？你疯了吧！
Zeno Cavalryman I: A person? Have you lost your mind?

？？？：咳、咳咳！救……救命……
???: *cough* Help. Help me.

谢尔盖：快来，该死的，这真的是一个人！她还活着，快把她抬到营地里去！
Sergey: Damn it! Hurry up, will you? It's a living person! We have to take her to camp!

梅蕾尔：嗯……？
Merel: Hmm?

她听见马匹的鸣叫，不过不是一匹，而是数十匹马在同时出声，而且听起来离她十分遥远。
The sound of dozens of horses neighing at once echoes from somewhere far away.

梅蕾尔：……安德烈森……卡戎？——这是，咳咳，这是哪里？
Merel: Andreas? Charon? Where *cough* where am I?

温暖干燥的气流吹向她的面颊，她听见柳木条燃烧的噼啪声。
Warm, dry air sweeps across her cheeks. She hears the crackle of burning willow sticks.

谢尔盖：醒了？站起来试试。
Sergey: You're awake? Try getting to your feet.

梅蕾尔：呕……我的头好晕，站不起来。
Merel: Ergh. My head's spinning. I can hardly ...

谢尔盖：忍住，别倒下，尽量走两步，这对溺水的人很有用，相信我。
Sergey: Whoa, whoa, easy now. Just try and take a few steps. It'll help, trust me.

梅蕾尔完全不知道自己是怎么站起来的，她只记得自己摇摇晃晃、不明不白地站直了身子。
Merel doesn't know how she gets to her feet. All she remembers is swaying as she somehow pulled herself upright.

梅蕾尔：我……这是……这是哪里？
Merel: I ... What is this place?

谢尔盖：芝诺骑兵军营地。放心，你很安全。
Sergey: Relax. You're in the Zeno Cavalry Corps camp. It's safe here.

梅蕾尔：芝……芝诺？不是吧……
Merel: Z-Zeno? Oh, you've got to be kidding.

这个名字就像一个熟悉的杀手，似乎要追杀她到世界的尽头。
That name is like a hell-bent killer pursuing her to the ends of the earth.

谢尔盖没有意识到落难少女语气中不自然的惊恐。对他来说，她多半只是吓坏了。
Sergey doesn't notice the unusual panic that grips her. To him, she's simply a frightened lost girl.

梅蕾尔四下张望，看见一位着装明显不同的士兵向她走来。
Merel looks around and sees a soldier in a different uniform walking toward her.

红弩箭：你把什么人带来了，谢尔盖？
Lilya: Sergey, I heard you found a girl.

梅蕾尔：这……这不是……
Merel: No. It can't be ...

谢尔盖：从河里捞上来的，中尉，她刚醒。
Sergey: We fished her out of the river, Lieutenant. She just woke up.

红弩箭：喔？你怎么知道不是叛军的探子？——她看起来可不像本地人啊。
Lilya: And you just brought her straight into camp? She's obviously not a local. What if she's a rebel spy, huh?

谢尔盖：是不像本地人，但这样子也不像匪军的人吧。
Sergey: Sure, she's not a local, but she doesn't seem like a bandit either.

红弩箭走近梅蕾尔，盯着她看了好一阵。
Lilya steps closer and stares at her for a long while.

红弩箭：……也有道理。你叫什么名字？
Lilya: Hm. Fair enough. What's your name?

梅蕾尔：我——
Merel: I—

一个刚编好的假名字被她吓得咽了回去。在红弩箭中尉的质问下，少女失去了撒谎的勇气。
She falters before she can say the false name she created. Under Lieutenant Lilya's piercing gaze, the girl loses the courage to lie.

梅蕾尔：梅……梅蕾尔。
Merel: M-Merel.

红弩箭：梅蕾尔？好吧，听起来确实不是本地人。你是怎么掉水里的？
Lilya: Merel? Not from around here, then. How'd you end up in the water?

梅蕾尔：我是逃难到这儿来的，呃……然后，就是……在河边碰到了也许是土匪之类的人。
Merel: I, uh, I came seeking refuge near the river, and then, I ... I was chased by some people—bandits or something.

梅蕾尔：我开始跑，但是不小心从马背上跌下来，摔进了河里。
Merel: I tried to escape, but I fell off my horse and into the river.

红弩箭无可奈何地摇头，为少女的不幸而遗憾。她转向谢尔盖。
Hearing her tale of misfortune, Lilya shakes her head helplessly and turns to Sergey.

红弩箭：等她恢复好之后就送她到安全的地方去。军长下令了，明天一早拔营进城，中途在红柳树村驻扎一日。
Lilya: Send her somewhere safe after she recovers. We'll decamp tomorrow morning, station in Tamarovka for a day, and then head to the city. Commander's orders.

谢尔盖：真的？那就是我家呀，我要住自己的房子去，看看姑父和姑母。
Sergey: Really? That's my home! I can visit my aunt and uncle! I can sleep in my own bed for a night!

红弩箭：你得向军长请假才行——对了，梅蕾尔，我去给你拿些吃的，基金会送来的肉罐头还剩了些，你刚从水里出来，可不能再喝白菜汤了。
Lilya: You'll have to apply for leave to do that. You eaten anything, Merel? We still got some canned meat from the Foundation.

梅蕾尔：肉罐头……
Merel: Canned meat ...

“基金会”一词带来的压迫感被“肉罐头”的诱惑所取代。饥肠辘辘的少女咽下一口唾沫。
The temptation of canned meat outweighs all fear of the Foundation. She swallows her saliva.

中尉离开后，谢尔盖照常开始抱怨起来。
After the lieutenant leaves, Sergey returns to his usual complaining.

谢尔盖：可惜啊，今天没捞着什么鱼，光把你捞上来了。
Sergey: Too bad I only caught you today, huh?

梅蕾尔：那……对、对不起？
Merel: Um, s-sorry?

谢尔盖：别担心，以后还有机会捞鱼，总不至于再捞上个人来。对了，到了红柳树村，你也可以直接住进我姑父的家。
Sergey: Don't worry. It's not every day you fish a person out of the river, hahaha. Oh, by the way, you can stay at my uncle's when we arrive in Tamarovka if you like.

谢尔盖：不是什么好房子，但总比住在帐篷里舒服。
Sergey: It's no Winter Palace, but it's better than a tent, that's for sure.

梅蕾尔：你和你姑父一起生活？
Merel: You live with your uncle?

谢尔盖：是啊，我老爹四年前死在前线了，妈妈在前年冬天也病死了，好在姑姑一家人好，收留了我。
Sergey: Yeah. Father died at the front four years ago, and my mother was sick—lost her two years later. My aunt and uncle took me in.

谢尔盖：当然，我们得替他们家干农活，但这对我来说不算什么问题。
Sergey: I do have to do farm work to earn my keep, but that's no big deal.

谢尔盖：你是从哪儿来的？——你说你是逃难的，你的家人现在在哪里？
Sergey: How about you? Where are you from? You said you're a refugee. Where's your family now?

梅蕾尔：我……我……
Merel: I ... I ...

少女双目失神地盯着眼前的空地。
The girl stares at the empty ground before her.

梅蕾尔：我没有家人。
Merel: I don't have a family.

一向不正经的谢尔盖也收起了笑意，他不禁回想起母亲在咳嗽声中死去的那个冬天。
Even the ever-slippery Sergey loses his smile. He can't help but think of that winter when his mother lay dying.

梅蕾尔：一个，嗯……孤儿学校收留了我，之后我就在学校里长大……
Merel: An, um, orphanage took me in. I grew up there.

梅蕾尔：骑兵军里有很多本地人吗，像你一样？
Merel: Are there many locals in the cavalry? Like you?

谢尔盖：没错，像我一样当兵的大部分都是本地人。芝诺刚到这里来的时候只有千来号人，还算不上什么骑兵军呢。
Sergey: Yeah, most of us actually. Back when Zeno first got here, there were only a thousand people. The Cavalry Corps didn't even exist.

谢尔盖：后来顿河开始闹饥荒，地里连土豆都长不出来了。但骑兵军给吃给住，也不乱来。
Sergey: When the famine struck the steppe, and even potatoes wouldn't grow, the cavalry gave us food and shelter.

谢尔盖：我觉得来给他们当兵也不错，至少能给家里多留些粮食。
Sergey: So I thought, maybe it wouldn't be too bad to join them. At least then I could save some food for my family.

梅蕾尔：可……这是入伍，你要上战场的。
Merel: But you've enlisted in an army. You'll have to fight.

谢尔盖：这不还没开始正经打仗嘛，眼下大家都还活得好好的，这不就成了？
Sergey: But I haven't had to yet. And everyone's alive and fitter than ever. Isn't that enough?

红弩箭：你们已经是朋友了？
Lilya: Friends already, huh?

红弩箭从物资库慢悠悠地走回来，把一个肉罐头精准地扔进了梅蕾尔怀里。
She precisely tosses a can of meat into Merel's arms.

谢尔盖：没有我的份吗，中尉？
Sergey: Nothing for me, Lieutenant?

红弩箭：嘴馋了不早说？自己去领！
Lilya: Too slow. Got to get it yourself now.

梅蕾尔藏在芝诺士兵们轻松的闲聊中，低头盯着罐头上基金会的标志看了许久。
Merel, silent among their chatter, stares at the Foundation symbol on the can for a long while.

最终，她用食指拉开了罐头拉环，低头啜饮了一口飘着油花的肉汁。
Finally, she slips her index finger under the ring and pulls the can open. She lowers her head and sips the oily gravy.

？？？：曾经，我以为你会带领我们夺取永恒之物。我以为你像我一样，拥有这种崇高的、值得人追随的野心。
???: There was a time I thought you would lead us to the eternal. I thought you were like me—a man with ambition, a leader worth following.

？？？：可你现在变成了什么？——我从没想过，你是一个临阵退缩的懦夫。
???: But look what you've become. A coward.

？？？：我的立场从来没有变过，我要登上的是受人供奉的祭坛。在这一点上，我远超过你，伊戈尔。
???: You buckled while I stood tall. I have far excelled you, Igor, and the world will worship me for it.

他拿出手枪，瞄准眼前拦路的高大身影，然后扣下扳机，却只听见撞针击空时发出的脆弱“咔哒”声。
He whips out his pistol, aims at the tall figure blocking his way, and pulls the trigger, only to hear the faint click of the firing pin.

伊戈尔：……没有凡人能跨越永恒，格鲁托夫。
Igor: No mortal can transcend eternity, Krutov.

反倒是对手从容不迫地拔出了马刀。
His opponent calmly draws his shashka.

伊戈尔：你的傲慢超越了你应有的限度，使你变得愚蠢而残忍。这令我失望。
Igor: Your arrogance has gone beyond your means, turning you cruel and foolish. How disappointing.

格鲁托夫：你杀不死我，伊戈尔，你——
Krutov: You can't kill me, Igor. You—

格鲁托夫：——！
Krutov: ...!!

喧哗。枪声。互相推搡时的咒骂。马蹄掀起几乎有些烫人的尘埃。
Shouts, gunfire, curses, as men shove past one another and hooves kick up an almost scalding dust.

押送士兵：——把人都带过来，神秘学家和人类都分开。芝诺的俘虏单独带到一边，快动起来，一群懒鬼！
Escort Soldier: Bring everyone here! Separate the arcanists from the humans! Zeno's captives in their own line! Move it, slackers!

格鲁托夫：……
Krutov: ...

他从一贯焦躁的梦境中脱离，周身仍然弥漫着残余的熏香，令人憎恶的天仙子气味挥之不去。
He wakes from his restless dreams. Incense still lingers in the air around him, the hateful scent of henbane clinging to his nostrils.

格鲁托夫：没用的东西……我就知道那些脑子烧坏的术士完全不可靠。
Krutov: Useless. I knew that witless ritualist was not to be trusted.

仪式术士：格鲁托夫将军。
Ritualist: General Krutov.

似乎是早已预料到营帐中的人已清醒，一位着装与四周环境格格不入的术士侧身进入。
As if having foreseen that the man in the tent would awake, an oddly dressed ritualist slips inside.

仪式术士：熏香还未完全散去，你就已经清醒了。依我之见，你应该继续梦境，直到你能战胜梦魇。
Ritualist: You have awoken, yet the incense has yet to fade. I suggest you return to your dreams until you're capable of overcoming your nightmare.

格鲁托夫：这些谜语你爱说多少就说多少，但我已经受够这种把戏了——你进来做什么？
Krutov: Enough of your riddles and trickery. Why are you here?

仪式术士：俘虏。第一批俘虏已经送到了营地。
Ritualist: Captives. The first batch has arrived.

格鲁托夫：那就按照我们说好的去做，你把神秘学家带走，其余人都留下来交给我处置。有什么问题吗？
Krutov: Then you do as we agreed: Take the arcanists and leave the rest to me. What part of that do you not understand?

仪式术士：被俘的人中有一个比较奇特的个体，一名意识唤醒者。我们之前没有讨论过如何处理这种东西。
Ritualist: There is a peculiar individual among the captives—an Awakened. We didn't discuss how to deal with them.

格鲁托夫：意识唤醒者通常有些不同寻常的用处。关于它，你还知道些什么？
Krutov: An Awakened. Those can be particularly useful. What do you know of it?

仪式术士：拜祂赐予的知识，我得以知晓一些有关它的情报。没想到会在这里见到它。
Ritualist: Thanks to the knowledge bestowed by Her, I was able to glean some insight. Though, I'm surprised to have encountered it here.

仪式术士：一些可悲而愚钝的人采用神话中的名字为它命名，仿佛靠这种方法，就能让他们有罪的灵魂安息……
Ritualist: It seems the human fools named it after a mythological deity, as if by doing so, it would somehow render it capable of resting their sinful souls in peace.

格鲁托夫：有意思，带我去看看。
Krutov: Interesting. Take me to it.

营地边缘传来间歇性的沙袋落地声，每一次间隔中都夹杂着一阵密集的枪响。
Between the thudding of sandbags hitting the ground, bursts of gunfire echo through the camp.

卡戎：……
Charon: ...

已为这个时代的悲剧献出生命的亡者，凭借着本能，感知周遭正在发生的一切。
Having already given his life to the tragedy of this age, Charon has already sensed what is happening around him.

他想要离开这处困境，却始终动弹不得。不久前，一位术士在他脚下留下了一连串能禁锢行动的符号。
He wants to leave but cannot move. Not long ago, a ritualist scratched a series of symbols beneath his feet, binding him to the spot.

格鲁托夫：卡戎，是吗？
Krutov: Charon, is it?

他很晚才意识到迫近的脚步声。顺着声音的来向，他缓缓转过身。
He senses the approaching footsteps only when they are already close, then turns toward the voice.

卡戎：……为什么要杀死那些投降的人？
Charon: Why did you kill those who surrendered?

格鲁托夫：我没有那么多粮食来喂他们，事实上，整个顿河也没有足够的粮食供现在的所有人过冬。
Krutov: Well, too many mouths to feed. There isn't enough food across the entire Don to keep everyone alive through the winter.

卡戎：你可以把他们放走，他们只是平民，不会对你的军队造成伤害。
Charon: You could have set them free. They were only civilians. They would cause you no trouble.

格鲁托夫：草原上只有凶狠而野蛮的哥萨克，没有平民。这些人会去投靠我的敌人，我不想好心做了坏事。
Krutov: Civilian implies civilization—civility, wouldn't you say? The Cossacks are barbarians. Setting them free would only bolster my enemies. I will not take the risk.

卡戎：……
Charon: ...

亡者垂首沉默，看起来他要说的、能说的已经说完。
Charon lowers his head in silence. It seems there are no words left in him.

格鲁托夫：真有意思……你和那个术士说得一模一样。告诉我，你真的能看见人们的死亡吗？
Krutov: Intriguing. Just as the ritualist said. Tell me, are you able to foresee a man's death?

卡戎：我知道阴影已经笼罩了草原，将有无数人死于饥饿与仇恨驱使的杀戮。所以，我来到了这里。
Charon: The shadow of death lingers over these grasslands. Countless will die in a killing driven by starvation and hatred. That is what brought me here.

格鲁托夫扭过头，看向营地边缘，微微隆起的小丘上，枯黄的牧草温顺地低垂着。
Krutov looks off to the edge of the camp, where the yellow pasture grass bows gently on small rises.

又有一阵密集的枪声，同样地伴随着某些东西摔向地面的声音。
Gunfire crackles again, along with the sound of something crashing to the ground.

格鲁托夫：就连我也能告诉你，草原即将被鲜血灌溉。明年的土地将会更加丰沃，而我是主宰这一切的主人。
Krutov: A shadow, you say? I see a man walking the grasslands, the dead nourishing the soil. He stands amid a bountiful harvest. I am that man.

格鲁托夫：我需要的不是这个，而是一个更精准的死亡预言，关于某一个人，或者……关于我自己。
Krutov: Your "shadow of death" means nothing. What I need is a precise prophecy, one for a single man, for me.

卡戎：我无法做到这样的事，也不愿预言任何人的死亡。
Charon: I cannot do such a thing. Nor is there any desire to.

格鲁托夫：我是在给你机会，意识唤醒者。留在我身边，为我的军队服务，我就不会把你交到那个术士手上。
Krutov: I am offering you a chance, Awakened. Serve me and my army, and I will spare you the ritualist's hand.

卡戎：术士？
Charon: Ritualist?

格鲁托夫用下巴指了指卡戎脚踩着的禁锢术式。
Krutov gestures toward the binding ritual beneath Charon with his chin.

格鲁托夫：这就是那个术士的杰作。她告诉我，你曾经用神秘术消除了这些术士施加在一个人类身上的精神咒术。
Krutov: This is her work. She tells me you dispelled another incantation cast by her kind on a human soldier.

格鲁托夫：现在，他们非常希望把你一点点拆成碎片，搞清楚你的神秘术究竟是如何运作的。
Krutov: She's desperate to tear you apart and see how you did it. Some special arcane skill, she claims.

格鲁托夫：相信我，那些疯子不会让你好受的。
Krutov: Trust me. What she will do to you is one thing you do not want to foresee.

卡戎：……重塑之手。
Charon: Manus Vindictae.

格鲁托夫：看来你也不是真的一无所知。现在，你知道该怎么做决定了吗？
Krutov: Ah, so you can see some specifics. Well? What is your decision?

卡戎：不……我既不是你的敌人，也不是你的盟友。除了为死者送葬，我无法为你们做到任何事。
Charon: No. Neither your enemy nor your ally. There is nothing I can do for you but bury the dead.

格鲁托夫凝视着卡戎，眼色锐利，仿佛是想切开对方遮蔽面容的血污白布。
Krutov fixes a sharp gaze on Charon, as if he could tear through the cloth covering his face with sight alone.

格鲁托夫：呵——理念不合，是吗？
Krutov: Difference of opinion, hmph?

格鲁托夫：人们总是这样，做出对所有人都不好的决定，所有人——所有人都在做错误的事！
Krutov: Why am I surprised? You're just like the rest of them. One bad decision after another!

比起卡戎，他简直是在咒骂一个并不存在于此处的对象。
His cursing seems to be directed at some invisible onlooker rather than at Charon.

格鲁托夫：而我会纠正所有的错误，只有我才会做到。
Krutov: And I am left to right their wrongs. It seems only I can.

格鲁托夫：我给过你机会了，怪东西。
Krutov: I gave you your chance, freak.

12TH-05 陌生的目光 / Strange Gazes

数千匹战马走过红柳树村前的道路，它们驮着全副武装的骑兵，用沉重的马蹄将土路踏得坚硬无比。
Thousands of warhorses carrying fully armed cavalrymen travel to Tamarovka, their heavy hooves pounding the dirt road into hard-packed earth.

骑兵军侦察连队首先抵达了村庄。村民们在屋门前张望，以一种警惕的姿态看着骑兵军士兵。
The Cavalry Corps's reconnaissance team reaches the village first. The villagers are on alert, eyeing the soldiers from their doorways.

谢尔盖：你听说了吗，梅蕾尔？等会儿会有个基金会的老爷到村里来。我们村还是第一次见这种人。
Sergey: You heard, Merel? A Foundation big shot's coming to the village. That's a first!

梅蕾尔：老爷？什么老爷？
Merel: Big shot? Who?

梅蕾尔不自觉地想拉起面罩，陡然意识到她已经在逃难的路上弄丢了原来的衣服。
Merel unconsciously reaches for her mask, suddenly realizing that she lost it during her escape.

谢尔盖：听说是个大官，军长亲自接待……算了，这不关我们的事。
Sergey: Not sure, but the commander needs to welcome them personally. *sigh* Forget it. None of our business.

谢尔盖：娜塔——什么？
Sergey: Natash—huh?

当他们走近一栋房屋时，谢尔盖似乎看见了熟人，想靠过去打声招呼。站在房门口的女人却飞快地关上了门。
As they pass a nearby house, Sergey seems to spot an old acquaintance in a doorway. He leans forward to greet her, but she shuts the door in his face.

梅蕾尔再也无法忽视从四面八方袭来的敌意，这种被盯着看的感觉让她想要缩成一团。
The hostility radiating from the onlookers in every direction makes Merel want to curl into a ball.

梅蕾尔：……谢尔盖，这真是你原来的村子吗？为什么村子里的人看我们的眼神这么奇怪。
Merel: Um, Sergey, isn't this your hometown? Why are they staring at you like that?

谢尔盖：我可不记得我之前有过这么多仇家，顶多……顶多也就一两个。这是在搞什么？
Sergey: I don't know. It's not like I've made that many enemies. Just one or two at most.

谢尔盖：搞不明白，还是去见我姑父吧——看见那座铁皮瓦的房子了吗？那就是我家。
Sergey: Anyway, let's go meet my uncle. See that house with the iron sheeting? That's our home.

梅蕾尔顺着谢尔盖指示的方向看去，在那座蓝色铁皮屋顶房子的院落前，见到了一位拄着拐杖的老人。
Merel follows his finger to a house with a blue iron-sheet roof. A man holding a cane stands in the yard.

谢尔盖兴奋地摘下帽子，举起来不断挥舞。
Sergey takes off his hat and excitedly waves it in the air.

谢尔盖：姑父！
Sergey: Uncle Petro!

老人止不住地用拐杖在地上敲着，拼命挤着眼睛，似乎在说“臭小子别开口了”。
The old man only strikes the ground with his cane. His heavy blink seems to say, "Don't start, boy."

谢尔盖：奇怪……
Sergey: What's going on?

梅蕾尔：也许有什么隐情……要不我们还是靠过去问一下吧。
Merel: Maybe something happened? Should we go ask him?

谢尔盖从没想到自己会一脸沮丧地来到家门口。姑父一把将养子拉到一边，梅蕾尔也下意识地跟了上去。
Sergey never expected his return home to be so dispirited. His uncle pulls him aside. Merel follows behind.

谢尔盖：这到底是在干什么呀？
Sergey: What's wrong, Uncle Petro?

姑父：还问我呢，倒是我要问你小子——你们的军长到底打不打那帮匪军？
Sergey's Uncle: You tell me! Did your commander say you'd fight those bandits or not?

谢尔盖：当然是要去打的。
Sergey: Of course!

姑父：什么时候打？
Sergey's Uncle: When?

谢尔盖：这、这倒是没告诉我……行动时间可是军事机密！
Sergey: That-That I don't know. It's a military secret!

姑父：有人说你们要进城去当乌龟，那我们这些住在乡下的，骑兵军还管不管了？
Sergey's Uncle: Word is you're going to the city—the lot of you! So where does that leave the rest of us, hm? The villagers need protecting too!

青年人没有想好怎么回答，只好尴尬地沉默着。姑父叹一口气，用一只干瘦有力的手死死捉住谢尔盖的胳膊。
The young man can't think of an answer. He can only stand in awkward silence. The uncle sighs and grips his nephew's shoulder hard with a slim yet powerful hand.

姑父：我懂了，我们一起逃难去吧。家里的东西已经收拾好了，今天我们就走，投奔你姑母在彼得罗夫卡的表姐去。
Sergey's Uncle: Alright, Seryozha, I understand. Everything's packed and ready to go. Come, we're leaving to your cousin's in Petrovka.

谢尔盖：姑父，你能不能把话说清楚一点！我怎么能当逃兵呢？
Sergey: Uncle Petro! Could you just tell me what's going on? I'm not deserting Zeno!

谢尔盖甩开姑父的手。一阵尴尬的愠怒染红了老人的脖子，他别过脸，斜眼看向一旁的梅蕾尔。
Sergey shakes off his uncle's hand. The old man's neck flushes red with embarrassment and anger. He turns and glances at Merel.

谢尔盖：她是我朋友，你别在意她，说吧。
Sergey: It's fine. She's a friend.

姑父：我们都在说，骑兵军不会管我们死活了，就算要管也管不了了。上游逃难过来的人说，匪军有好几万呢。
Sergey's Uncle: The cavalry is leaving us here to die. And the refugees from upstream—they said there are tens of thousands of bandits up there.

姑父：他们哪儿来这么多人啊？——这我倒不知道了，反正比你们骑兵军的人还多不少吧。你们拿什么打呢？
Sergey's Uncle: I don't know where they all came from, but your cavalry's nothing compared to that, right? You'll never fight them all off.

姑父：我悄悄告诉你，在你们来之前的几天夜里，村里剩下的小巫师、小女巫都投匪军去了！
Sergey's Uncle: And keep this quiet, but the kolduny left and joined the bandits!

谢尔盖：什么？！
Sergey: What?

姑父：别喊这么大声！他们走之前都说，谁要和骑兵军站一边，等他们杀回来了，就烧谁家的屋子。
Sergey's Uncle: Tch-tch-tch! They said they'd punish anyone who stands with the cavalry when they return.

他忧心忡忡地看着从村口经过的骑兵军。
He watches the Cavalry Corps soldiers passing by the village entrance.

姑父：要是你们打不过，全村都要被他们烧个一干二净了。所以，你到底和不和我逃难去？
Sergey's Uncle: If you can't fight them off, they'll burn the village to ashes. So, are you coming with us? Yes or no?

维尔汀：我看到红弩箭了。
Vertin: I see Lilya.

一支小规模的援军在草原上缓缓而行，运送枪弹与火炮的车队则缀在队伍之后，车轴隆隆作响。
A small group of reinforcements makes its slow advance across the grassland. A transport team carrying guns and artillery rumbles close behind.

十四行诗：她身边的人……应该就是芝诺骑兵军的军长了。
Sonetto: Hmm. That must be the commander of the Zeno cavalry beside her.

在此等候的骑兵军士官骑着马来到援军队列前，引导他们前往指定地点。
The Cavalry Corps officers awaiting them ride out to the head of the team to guide them to their destination.

老朋友先军长一步迎上司辰。
Before the commander can reach them, an old friend steps forward to greet the Timekeeper.

红弩箭：——头儿！基金会怎么偏偏在这个时候放你过来了？现在可一点也不太平。
Lilya: Captain! Why did the Foundation send you here? Isn't exactly the safest place in the world right now.

维尔汀：是我主动申请的，我需要在别列格勒搜寻一些情报……
Vertin: I applied for it. There's something I need to find in Bereggrad.

维尔汀：别这么看着我，红弩箭。Z女士批准了我这次外勤申请。
Vertin: Don't give me that look, Lilya. Madam Z approved it.

红弩箭：好吧，既然是Z女士同意过的。
Lilya: Alright, what Z says goes.

十四行诗：很高兴得知你安然无恙，红弩箭，在收到你的消息时我们都很紧张。
Sonetto: I'm glad to see you safe and sound, Ms. Lilya. Your message had us worried.

红弩箭：基金会应该更新一下通讯设备了，特殊时期，通讯器也该做成防弹的才对。
Lilya: Hah. The Foundation seriously needs to update their communication devices. At least, make them bulletproof.

军长靠近正在攀谈的队伍。
The commander approaches as they chat.

军长伊万：司辰。
Commander Ivan: Timekeeper.

维尔汀：你好，军长。我希望尽快了解别列格勒及周边的情况。
Vertin: Commander Ivan, it's a pleasure to meet you. If you could, a brief walk-through of the situation in Bereggrad and the surrounding areas would be most helpful.

军长伊万：我会向你们说明的。在此之前，我想问问这一支部队是哪儿来的？通讯中没有提到过他们。
Commander Ivan: Of course. But tell me, where did that company behind you spring from? I received no word in our communications.

军长看向援军中的一支百人左右的小队伍，他们由一位骑士所率领。
The commander's eyes settle on a small detachment within the reinforcements, about a hundred soldiers strong, led by a red-haired knight.

领队的红发骑士也发现了军长正在注意自己，便主动下马，靠上前来。
The knight notices him, too. She dismounts and steps forward.

玛尔纱：布列科夫少将，我是基金会“Ⅻ”特别行动小队的队医，我身后的是从前线返乡的士兵，还有一支野战医疗团队。
Marsha: Vice Admiral Burakov, I am the medic of the Foundation's special unit "XII." Behind me are the soldiers returning from the front lines and our field medical team.

玛尔纱：他们愿意加入骑兵军，参加对抗匪军的战斗。
Marsha: Every one of them is willing to enlist in the cavalry and join the fight against the bandits.

军长伊万：……这再好不过。
Commander Ivan: Good to know.

军长伊万：去找莎宾娜·斯捷尔诺娃上校，她会安排好你带来的这些人。
Commander Ivan: Go to Colonel Sabina Sternova. She will see your men settled.

玛尔纱：我明白了。
Marsha: Yes, Commander.

骑士带领这支特别的队伍离去。
The knight leads the special unit away.

军长伊万：请随我来吧，司辰。
Commander Ivan: Follow me, if you will, Timekeeper.

军长伊万：……目前，顿河零散的匪军有合流之势，他们得到了来源不明的芝诺武装，集中在相对靠近上游的位置。
Commander Ivan: Intelligence has spoken: the scattered bandit forces are converging upstream of the Don. They carry Zeno weaponry, though their identity is yet unknown.

军长伊万：有很大概率是伊戈尔主导了这一切，目前为止，按照指挥部的命令，我们没有与对方主力发生过大规模冲突。
Commander Ivan: Most likely, this is Igor's doing, though we've kept clear of them thus far, as headquarters ordered.

军长伊万：部分上游村庄已经遭到匪军洗劫。少数市民已经向下游逃难了，但是大多数还留守在城中不愿离开。
Commander Ivan: Villages have been plundered. Many have fled downstream, yet most cling to their homes.

军长从地图上抬起眼，露出了若有所思的神情。
The commander lifts his eyes from the map, still deep in thought.

军长伊万：根据芝诺的命令，骑兵军会在明早启程进城防守，直到你完成在别列格勒城内的任务。
Commander Ivan: Zeno has ordered the cavalry station in Bereggrad until your mission is complete. We ride at dawn.

维尔汀：骑兵军里有很多这个时代的本地人，他们对伊戈尔的认知是怎样的？
Vertin: Many of your cavalrymen are locals from the era. What do they think of Igor?

军长伊万：按照规定，他们没被告知圣保罗的事。伊戈尔在他们眼中是一个普通的军阀领袖。
Commander Ivan: What happened in São Paulo is classified. To them, he's a warlord like any other.

军长伊万：虽然我们还控制着一条进出城市的道路，但你要在这种情况下进城吗，司辰？叛军随时可能对城市发动攻击。
Commander Ivan: We do have a controlled route to the city, but Timekeeper, are you certain you wish to enter? The rebels could strike at any moment.

维尔汀：是的。至少城内还没有发生战斗，我需要尽快完成调查任务。
Vertin: Yes. I'll complete my mission quickly, hopefully before any conflict arises.

军长伊万：为了能更好地配合你的行动，我能了解任务的具体细节吗？
Commander Ivan: I see. Then tell me the details of your mission so that I may lend my hand.

维尔汀：我需要在城内找到一个与“暴雨”有关的重要线索，它与一个叫做“琥珀屋”的地方有关。
Vertin: There's a place in the city called the Amber Room. It's said to hold an important clue about the "Storm."

维尔汀：这就是我知道的全部。你对这个词有印象吗，军长？
Vertin: Does it sound familiar at all, Commander?

军长伊万：我想你说的不是放在圣彼得堡的那座国家宝藏，不然你也不会到一千公里外的别列格勒来了。
Commander Ivan: Not the Amber Room in St. Petersburg, I presume. We're a long way off from there.

军长伊万：我在别列格勒从未听人提起过它，看来我没法为你提供别的援助。
Commander Ivan: Then no, can't say it does. It seems I cannot aid you much in this.

军长顿了顿，问出了自己更加关心的问题。
The commander pauses, then asks the question that's been gnawing at him since the Timekeeper's arrival.

军长伊万：司辰，除了调查“暴雨”线索外，你身上是否还肩负调查“金色饥荒”的任务？
Commander Ivan: Timekeeper, may I ask: besides your "Storm" investigation, are you also here to deal with the Golden Famine?

军长伊万：我们尝试过自己解决，但芝诺的军人不具备调查神秘学事件的经验，很难找到症结所在。
Commander Ivan: We tried ourselves, but Zeno soldiers have little experience in arcane matters. We couldn't unearth the root.

维尔汀：抱歉，我没有接到相关的指示，但我会尽量留意可能的线索。
Vertin: I'm sorry. I didn't receive any information on that matter. But I'll keep an eye out for you.

军长伊万：……我明白了。
Commander Ivan: I see.

军长伊万：骑兵军会全力协助你。可是目前我们拥有的兵力，加上援军，也很难保证别列格勒的安全。
Commander Ivan: The cavalry will aid you in any way we can. But with our strength as it is, I cannot guarantee the safety of Bereggrad.

维尔汀：虽然我不确定这会有多大帮助，但是我在不久前刚得知了新一批即将到来的增援。
Vertin: I'm not sure how much it will help, but I heard reinforcements are on the way.

维尔汀：一支新组建的飞行巫师中队马上就会抵达红柳树村，她们还多带来了一把新的飞行扫帚。
Vertin: The newly formed Flying Witch Company will arrive soon, along with a new broomstick for Lilya.

一旁昏昏欲睡的红弩箭来了兴趣。
Lilya suddenly perks up.

红弩箭：芝诺重新组建了飞行巫师中队？
Lilya: Zeno reformed the Flying Witches?

维尔汀：不，这是属于基金会的飞行中队。
Vertin: No, this unit belongs to the Foundation.

维尔汀：另外，红弩箭，伊里内伊委员委托我问你，你愿意在这次行动中临时担任飞行中队的队长吗？
Vertin: Lilya, Committee member Irinei asks if you'll serve as its temporary captain. What do you say?

在她面前的是一座孤独的空房子。
Sternova gestures to a lonely, empty house.

斯捷尔诺娃：以前住在这间屋子里的人有两年没有回来了。我问过村长，他同意把这里借给你住几天。
Sternova: We haven't seen the owner of this place for two years. The elder said you can stay here for a few days.

玛尔纱：这里……还挺宽敞的。
Marsha: This is spacious.

只要能忽视它摇摇欲坠的结构，这还算是一间不错的临时住所。
If you ignore its decrepit state, it is a fairly decent place for a short stay.

斯捷尔诺娃：嗯，就是院子里的马厩已经倒了，一直没有修好。不介意的话，你的马可以交给骑兵军统一照料。
Sternova: Um, yeah. The stable in the yard still needs some fixing up, so the cavalry will have to take care of your horse, if you don't mind.

玛尔纱：那再好不过，麻烦你们了。
Marsha: That would be kind of you. Thank you very much.

斯捷尔诺娃：没事，骑兵军有的是马，多一匹马也不算什么事。
Sternova: It's no big deal. What's one more horse to feed?

斯捷尔诺娃把房屋的钥匙交给玛尔纱之后，牵着她的马离开了。
Sternova hands the key to Marsha and leads her horse away.

玛尔纱转过身，正准备将钥匙插入锁孔，便被一阵窸窣声吸引了注意力。
Just as Marsha is about to slip the key inside the lock, a rustling sound catches her attention.

玛尔纱：有老鼠？
Marsha: Is that a rat?

——可这大得不像是老鼠能发出来的声音。
Not the sound a rat would make.

一个小小的黑色阴影消失在院落一旁曾经茂盛过的榆树下。
A small black shadow vanishes behind the once-leafy elm in the corner of the yard.

玛尔纱：嗯？是村里的小孩吗？
Marsha: Hm? Or a child from the village?

玛尔纱：算了……先进房屋休息吧。
Marsha: Never mind. I need to rest.

同样的动静再次传来，玛尔纱再次朝可疑的地点投去目光。
She hears it again. She looks over to the same spot.

玛尔纱：到底是谁躲在那儿？
Marsha: Who's there?

在榆树干后，她的目光与一颗探出来的脑袋短暂相遇。
From behind the elm, a head peeks out, briefly meeting her eyes.

？？？：……！
???: ...!

这一次，人影不再依靠掩体遮蔽身形，而是消失在一道神秘术的辉光中。
This time, the shadow doesn't hide itself behind the tree but disappears in the glow of an arcane skill.

玛尔纱：消失了？
Marsha: Vanished? Just like that?

玛尔纱警惕起来——她很难再把躲藏者视作无害对象。骑士拿出武器，向着神秘术辉光消散的方向而去。
This could be a threat. Marsha draws her weapon and moves toward the fading arcane light.

一抹团状的黑色影子又一次在视线中一闪而过。
A shadow flashes past once more.

玛尔纱：这是什么东西？刚刚看见的明明是一个人影才对。
Marsha: What? That was definitely a person.

玛尔纱：这么躲躲藏藏的实在是太可疑了，而且还是在骑兵军驻扎的村子里……难道是间谍？
Marsha: A person sneaking in the shadows around the cavalry's station. Suspicious to be sure. A spy, perhaps?

“沙沙——”
*a strange sound*

声音再次暴露出方位。
Its direction is exposed again.

在追逐之前，玛尔纱凝神审视——
Turning, Marsha stares intently.

玛尔纱：……我没看错吧，那对蟹螯……是招潮蟹？在顿河草原上？
Marsha: Are my eyes playing tricks on me? Is that a fiddler crab? On the Don steppe?

骑士迈开脚步，以惊人的速度向可疑的招潮蟹靠近，沉重的盔甲也完全没有影响她的速度。
The knight runs toward the dubious fiddler crab at astonishing speed. Her heavy armor doesn't seem to slow her down in the slightest.

而对方几乎是慌不择路地横着向村外逃窜。
In its desperation, her opponent flees sideways toward the outskirts of the village.

二人之间的距离越来越近。
But there is no escape. The knight is closing in on the crab.

玛尔纱：——抓到你了！
Marsha: Got you!

被逼到墙角的海栖魔精咔嚓作响地在空中挥舞巨螯。
Forced into a corner, the fiddler crab snaps its oversized claws in the air.

招潮蟹？：嘶嘶……嘶嘶嘶——！
Fiddler Crab?: Sssss!

玛尔纱：放弃吧，你的变形术也太拙劣了，招潮蟹怎么可能会在草原上出现？
Marsha: Enough, shapeshifter! This is absurd! How would a fiddler crab make it out here to the plain?

玛尔纱：而且作为一只招潮蟹，你的体型也太大了。
Marsha: And might I remind you that you're too big to be a crab?

招潮蟹？：嘶……
Fiddler Crab?: Sss ...

辉光再次闪烁着，环绕着招潮蟹周身的光线开始扭曲变形。
The same glow returns, the light surrounding the fiddler crab bending and distorting.

施术者终于放弃了无用的神秘术。
It reveals the figure of a girl.

梅蕾尔：……
Merel: ...

新晋的“Ⅻ”小队队医与逃亡中的“Ⅻ”小队队员四目相对。
The newly appointed medic of the "XII" Squad locks eyes with her team's deserter.

梅蕾尔：又……又见面了——
Merel: H-Hey, nice to see you again. Heh.

玛尔纱：梅，蕾，尔？
Marsha: Merel?

玛尔纱：你怎么……
Marsha: H-How did you ...

玛尔纱向前一步。被抓捕的逃兵立刻下蹲，双手护住头顶。
Marsha steps forward. Caught at last, Merel squats down, covering her head with both hands.

梅蕾尔：别……别打我！我什么都说！
Merel: D-Don't hurt me! I'll tell you everything.

玛尔纱：……你是说，打算就这么混在骑兵军里直到战争结束？
Marsha: You mean to say you plan to stay here until the war's over?

梅蕾尔：嗯……现在除了待在骑兵军里，外面都没有东西可以吃了。
Merel: Well, I don't really have much choice. At least with the cavalry, I won't starve.

玛尔纱：如果“暴雨”来了呢？你要怎么办？
Marsha: And if the "Storm" comes? What then?

梅蕾尔：我带了一把平衡伞，说不定到了下一个时代，我可以找到安全的地方……
Merel: I'll be fine. I took an Equilibrium Umbrella with me. And maybe in the next era, I'll find a safer place to stay.

她神色一沉，变得心虚而不安。
Her face sinks.

梅蕾尔：我、我被土匪追杀的时候把伞弄丢了……
Merel: Oh. Oh no. I lost it when the bandits chased me.

玛尔纱：……
Marsha: ...

梅蕾尔：唔！
Merel: Oourgh!

骑士的一双手扣住逃兵的脸，使劲揉搓。
The knight grabs her face with both hands, pressing her cheeks tight together.

梅蕾尔：补……方开……<不……放开……>
Merel: Let go.

玛尔纱：现在是战时，你知道逃兵被抓到会怎么处置吗？你觉得一直混在芝诺的队伍里就不会有基金会的人发现你？
Marsha: This is serious, Merel! Do you have any idea what they do to deserters? Do you think hiding with Zeno will prevent the Foundation from finding you?

梅蕾尔：唔——窝……喔不知岛……<唔——我……我不知道……>
Merel: I ... I don't know.

玛尔纱：躲得了一次“暴雨”，躲得了下一次吗？
Marsha: You may survive one "Storm," but what about the next? And the others after that?

梅蕾尔：秋……秋妮，玛尔……<求……求你，玛尔……>
Merel: Please ... Marsha ...

玛尔纱：你又怎么知道下一次会到一个怎样的时代？
Marsha: How will you know which era the "Storm" will take us to next?

梅蕾尔：玛尔纱……窝补能——湖西……<玛尔纱……我不能——呼吸……>
Merel: Marsha ... Can't ... breathe ...

玛尔纱骤然松开手。
She lets go.

玛尔纱：真是要被你急死了。
Marsha: Honestly! What am I to do with you?

梅蕾尔垂下脑袋，揉着被搓红的脸颊。
Merel hangs her head, rubbing her reddened cheeks.

梅蕾尔：你为什么会到这里来？
Merel: So, why are you here?

玛尔纱：我要带一队偶遇的顿河人回家，正好与司辰顺路，就和她在路上会合，一起过来了。
Marsha: I was taking a group of Don Cossacks home and heard the Timekeeper was going the same direction, so we met on the road and traveled the rest of the way together.

玛尔纱：现在我的事情完成了。刻雷乌斯要求我在这段时间留在司辰身边，等她的任务完成之后一起回基金会总部。
Marsha: Now that I have arrived, Creius has requested I stay by the Timekeeper's side until she completes her mission. Then I'll return with her.

梅蕾尔：……你……是不是要抓我回去？见刻雷乌斯？
Merel: Y-You're not going to bring me back to Creius, are you?

玛尔纱靠在磨损老旧的屋梁柱上，脸色十分难看。
Marsha leans against a worn pillar, looking deeply downcast.

玛尔纱：要是见刻雷乌斯倒还好了，就怕基金会也来插手。但我肯定要带你回去的，在外面逃跑只会更危险。
Marsha: If only I could. But with Creius comes the Foundation. Either way, I'll be sure to bring you back. Running around alone out here is far more dangerous than anything the Foundation could do.

逃亡的少女知道自己没有反抗的手段。
Merel knows there's nothing left she can do.

玛尔纱：除了我之外，这里有没有人认识你？
Marsha: Does anybody else here know you, aside from me?

梅蕾尔：没有……
Merel: No.

“基金会老爷”年轻的脸出现在梅蕾尔脑子里，她摇摇头，把那双灰色眼睛从记忆中甩出去。
The image of the young Foundation "big shot" appears in Merel's mind. She shakes her head, trying to erase those gray eyes from her memory.

梅蕾尔：我认识司辰和红弩箭，但她们应该都不认识我。
Merel: I know the Timekeeper and Lieutenant Lilya, but I don't think they know me.

梅蕾尔：只是维尔汀的助手……我说不准，十四行诗和我当过几年同学，虽然我们也没怎么打过交道。
Merel: But Sonetto, Vertin's assistant ... I'm not so sure. We were classmates for a few years, but we didn't talk much.

玛尔纱：那你暂时跟在我身边，尽量别让十四行诗看见。如果这事能在队内解决，或许还好说。
Marsha: I see. Stay close with me, then, and don't let Sonetto see you. It would be best if we solved this without any interference from a third party.

玛尔纱：我和帕拉维扬也许可以给你说情……但这一切的前提是，你不准再逃跑了。
Marsha: Paravyan and I may be able to plead your case, but if we're to have any chance of being successful, you can't run away. Not again.

梅蕾尔：唔——！
Merel: Urgh!

一道尖锐的破空声打破了好不容易平复下来的情绪，少女猛地抬头，却只看见空中留下的几道蜿蜒气流。
A sharp noise breaks the silence, startling the still-nervy Merel. She jerks her head up but sees only a few swirling trails of condensation lingering in the sky.

梅蕾尔：天上是什么？
Merel: What is that?

玛尔纱也抬头望向天空，但并未有任何慌张。
Marsha looks up too, but she shows no sign of alarm.

玛尔纱：是基金会的飞行中队，她们到了。
Marsha: It's the Foundation's flight unit. They're here.

12TH-06 一个儿子的自白 / A Son's Confession

红弩箭：——再快一点！
Lilya: Faster!

红弩箭急速掠过低空，新型飞行扫帚在草场上劈开狭长的“V”形波浪纹。
Lilya speeds low across the plain, the newest flying broomstick model cutting a narrow V shape through the grass.

阿尔法2号：我们快看不见你了，中尉！
Alpha Two: Lieutenant! We're losing sight of you!

红弩箭：如果你们想跟上我的话，就快点学会怎么在5秒内把速度推到240。
Lilya: Then you better learn how to get your speed up to 240 in five seconds.

队内通讯中传出含混不清的应答声。这些声音信号哀号着，苦苦追上了飞在最前端的中队长。
A series of vague replies come through the communicator, their voices strained as they struggle to catch up to their captain.

阿尔法2号：可是在这个高度，按照飞行扫帚操作手册——
Alpha Two: But at this height, according to the manual—

红弩箭：什么？操作手册？——那是写给书呆子看的，现在我是你们的队长。
Lilya: The manual? Pft, that's for nerds! Are you nerds?

红弩箭：按照预定队形分出两队，准备爬升，记得给我把杆拉到底！
Lilya: Move into split formation and prepare to climb! Brooms up!

阿尔法2号：明——明白！
Alpha Two: C-Copy that!

二十四名飞行巫师追随领头的隼儿直冲云霄，拖曳出垂直于地面的尾流，将身后的天幕切成两半。
Twenty-four Flying Witches follow their leader into the clouds above, slicing the sky in two with their vertical trails.

红弩箭：够了，保持现在的高度，现在你们能看见河边的那些靶子了吗？
Lilya: Hold altitude. See the targets by the river?

阿尔法2号：能看得见，中尉。
Alpha Two: Yes, Lieutenant.

红弩箭：很好，虽然真正的敌人不会停在原地挨打，但必须要先拿这些无聊的东西练练手。
Lilya: Good. Real enemies won't just stand around and wait for you to strike, but training like this can sharpen your eye.

红弩箭：以相对方向夹击目标，注意避开友军……现在——俯冲向下！
Lilya: Flank the target from both sides, avoid friendly fire, and dive!

“轰——”
*boom*

一轮成功的俯冲扫射之后，两支飞行队姿态轻巧地在空中交会、盘旋，又重新合为一队。
After a successful firing dive, the two flight teams effortlessly reunite in the sky. They rendezvous, hover, and merge into a single formation.

军长伊万：……
Commander Ivan: ...

谈话声被逐渐嘈杂的引擎呼啸所掩盖，飞行中队已抵达红柳树村前的开阔地，正渐次降落。
The howl of engines quickly drowns out the commander's conversation as the flight unit descends onto the open ground outside Tamarovka.

领队的女巫降落妥当，将扫帚交给队副。
With her feet firm on the ground, Lilya passes her broom to her second-in-command.

红弩箭：头儿，军长——
Lilya: Captain. Oh, Commander.

飞行女巫穿越环绕周身的混乱气浪，崭新的制服如旗帜般猎猎作响。
The swirling air around her sends Lilya's pristine uniform fluttering like a flag in the wind.

她径直走向在村口观摩训练的骑兵军将领与基金会要人。
She walks straight toward the cavalry and Foundation leaders, who stand at the entrance of the village, observing the training.

红弩箭：基金会新扫帚还不赖，这些新兵也是，最大的问题是她们太信赖机械，对神秘术的掌握还欠些火候。
Lilya: New broom's nice. Rookies aren't too bad either. Only problem is, they rely on the tech too much. Should spend a little more time on their arcane skills.

红弩箭：还有，我从没想过有一天会穿上基金会的制服……等等，我想这不意味着我之后要听委员会的话了吧？
Lilya: Have to say, I never thought I'd wear a Foundation uniform. Wait. Don't tell me I have to follow the Committee's orders from now on.

维尔汀：你的编制仍然留在司辰小队中，红弩箭。这身衣服是为了方便你履行飞行中队长的职责。
Vertin: Don't worry. You're still on Team Timekeeper. Your new uniform's just for easy identification while you're acting as flight captain.

红弩箭：这还不错。
Lilya: Alright.

军长伊万：在可能的战斗爆发之前，你还有一些时间训练你的队员，需要尽快与她们磨合。
Commander Ivan: You have some time to sharpen your little birds, but conflict rides fast. Work quick.

军长伊万：基金会承诺会为我们提供更多军需品，包括供应整个飞行中队的燃料和弹药。
Commander Ivan: The Foundation swore us enough fuel and ammunition for your entire unit and more besides.

军长伊万：这些东西只对你们有用，你可以直接从军需官处获取飞行中队需要的物资，不用再打申请。
Commander Ivan: You alone have access to it. No applications, no paperwork, just go directly to the quartermaster.

红弩箭：真棒，我一定会让这些新兵脚不沾地的。
Lilya: Nice. I'll make sure the rookies never step foot on the ground.

维尔汀：伊里内伊委员告诉我，这将是Su-02ве型飞行扫帚第一次投入实战，他希望你能给他一些使用反馈。
Vertin: Mr. Irinei said that this is the Su-02ве's combat debut. He hopes to hear some feedback from you.

红弩箭：速度更快，机动性更好，火力更凶猛……差不多就是这些，算是全方位的提升。
Lilya: Well, it's faster, got stronger firepower and better maneuverability. Basically an all-round improvement.

红弩箭：相比之下，我更关心这种试验机有没有什么重大缺陷。
Lilya: Haven't used it for long, though. Any major defects you know of?

维尔汀：它们非常贵。
Vertin: The price.

维尔汀：02型的制造成本是01型的三倍以上。
Vertin: One 02 costs nearly triple the amount of an 01, or even more.

红弩箭：那如果我摔坏了它，这账要算到谁的头上？
Lilya: Who's paying for repairs?

维尔汀：配发给你的Su-02ве被算在司辰小队的编制下。
Vertin: Me. The Su-02ве assigned to you is the property of Team Timekeeper.

红弩箭：……行吧，我会好好呵护它的。
Lilya: Okay. I'll do my best not to break it.

时间已到正午，斜挂晴空的太阳在草原上投下不属于这个季节的燥意。
Noon descends. The sun hangs tilted in the sky, casting an unseasonable dryness across the grassland.

各家窗中都飘出了粗制饭食的香气，无论是饥荒还是富足的年代，朴素的麦香都同样诱人。
The aroma of simple meals drifts from the households. Whether in times of famine or prosperity, the plain scent of wheat is equally tempting.

军长伊万：那就这样吧，解散。
Commander Ivan: That is all. Dismissed.

命令下达，围绕在村口的高级将领纷纷散去。红弩箭回头看了一眼还在原地待命的飞行中队队员。
With the order given, the high-ranking officials outside the village drift away. Lilya turns to glance at the unit still holding position.

红弩箭：头儿，我得去照顾这些雏鸟了。
Lilya: Captain, I need to go take care of the baby birds.

维尔汀：嗯，稍后再见，红弩箭。
Vertin: Alright. See you later, Lilya.

飞行中队临时队长转身离去。
The temporary captain of the flight unit turns away.

军长伊万：……司辰。
Commander Ivan: Timekeeper.

维尔汀：有什么事吗，军长？
Vertin: Anything I can help you with, Commander?

军长伊万：如果你们还没有准备午饭的话，不如去我家吃一顿便饭吧，我会派人去叫你的助手。
Commander Ivan: Hungry? Come to my home for a meal, won't you? I'll send for your assistant too.

军长伊万：我母亲非常希望你们能尝尝她做的炖菜。
Commander Ivan: My mother's stew could raise a fallen horse. She would love for you to try it.

这是一句简单的邀请，但在眼下的境况中，听者却察觉出一丝异样。
A simple invitation. Yet under the circumstances, its recipient perceives a subtle unease.

维尔汀：……
Vertin: ...

维尔汀：抱歉，我刚有点走神。你是在说，你家，还有你的母亲，也在红柳树村吗？
Vertin: Sorry, I was just thinking about something. Do you mean to say that your home is in Tamarovka?

军长伊万：是的，你意下如何？
Commander Ivan: That's right. Will you come?

军长推开了一扇老旧的木门，他身后还跟着两位特别的访客。
The commander pushes open an old wooden door, followed by two special guests.

昏暗的烛光映照着悬挂在头顶的绳索——那里空荡荡的，本来应该系着今年过冬用的干菜和熏肉。
Faint candlelight reveals a rope strung above their heads where dried vegetables and smoked meat should be hung, but now hangs bare.

军长伊万：妈妈。
Commander Ivan: Mama.

佳琳娜夫人：万纽沙——你带客人来了吗？
Galina: Vanyusha? Did you bring guests?

维尔汀：你好，夫人，我是基金会的司辰，维尔汀。这一位是我的助手，十四行诗。
Vertin: Good afternoon, madam. I'm Vertin, Timekeeper of the Foundation. And this is Sonetto, my assistant.

佳琳娜夫人：哎呀，您就是——
Galina: Oh! So you're the one—

老妇人难掩惊异之色。
The elderly lady fails to hide her surprise.

佳琳娜夫人：万纽沙告诉我，今天会和基金会来的大人物见面，我从没想到您会是这个年纪。
Galina: When Vanyusha told me there would be important guests joining us, I hardly expected them to be so young.

佳琳娜夫人：不不，我没别的意思……还是别在意我了。万纽沙，为什么你不告诉我她还是个孩子？
Galina: Oh, I mean nothing by it, dear. Just the words of an old woman. Honestly, Vanyusha, you must tell me if you plan to bring growing young ladies to lunch.

佳琳娜夫人看着眼前的一锅菜汤，以及一些干硬的面包和熏鱼，面露愁容。
Ms. Galina gives a sheepish look at the cabbage soup, hard bread, and smoked fish before her.

军长伊万：我们就吃平常的东西，妈妈。这个时节不要再浪费食物了。
Commander Ivan: We're just here for a simple meal, Mama. No feasts while others starve.

十四行诗：感谢您的招待，夫人，这些东西对我们来说足够了。
Sonetto: The meal looks delicious, madam. More than enough for us.

伊万走到母亲身边，扶她坐下。
Ivan pulls out his mother's chair and helps her to her seat.

军长伊万：司辰，十四行诗小姐，把这里当自己家，不用太拘谨。
Commander Ivan: Timekeeper, Ms. Sonetto, sit, eat.

维尔汀：谢谢。
Vertin: Thank you.

佳琳娜夫人：只能叫你这么将就地吃一顿了……
Galina: You will have to forgive me. This is all I have to offer at the moment.

伊万拿起一块硬如岩石的面包，在热汤里泡软。客人也学着他的方式用餐。
Ivan takes a piece of rock-hard bread and softens it in the hot soup. His young guests follow suit.

军长伊万：过冬的粮食还够吗？
Commander Ivan: You have food enough for the winter, Mama?

佳琳娜夫人：我一个人吃是够了，不用担心我。但是不长麦子的秋天会持续多久，谁也没个准数。
Galina: Oh, don't worry about me. Though, if things go on like this, who can say?

佳琳娜夫人：司辰老爷，您是来帮我们看看这怪天气的吗？
Galina: Ms. Timekeeper, are you here to end the famine?

维尔汀：请您叫我维尔汀就好，佳琳娜夫人。
Vertin: Please, call me Vertin, madam.

维尔汀：至于“金色饥荒”……我会尽量弄清楚这件事的起因。
Vertin: As for this Golden Famine, I will try my best to give it a thorough investigation.

老妇人发出一声叹息，失落与希望的情绪都混在其中。
Caught between frustration and hope, the old lady lets out a sigh.

佳琳娜夫人：其他邻居劝我一起走，但我想你肯定有办法的，万纽沙，就想留下来等你的消息。
Galina: You should know, Vanyusha, many have told me to leave with them. But I have stayed, trusting that you will find a way.

佳琳娜夫人：有很多人从上游逃难过来，经过我们村子，都说从没见过那样的土匪，他们只要神秘学家，不要人类。
Galina: Some of those fleeing south passed through the village. They said the attackers are different. They only take kalduny—arcanists—as captives.

维尔汀：神秘学家？
Vertin: Arcanists?

佳琳娜夫人：是的，只要神秘学家，不配合的就会被打个半死，然后拖走。人类……
Galina: Yes. The poor things who refused to cooperate were beaten half to death before they took them. As for the humans, well ...

她摇摇头，不愿再说下去。
She simply shakes her head.

十四行诗：如果是伊戈尔的军队，不应该只接受神秘学家……
Sonetto: But Igor's army would've taken humans too.

佳琳娜夫人：伊戈尔？
Galina: Igor?

维尔汀：十四行诗，尝尝这块腌西瓜。
Vertin: Sonetto, you must try this pickled watermelon.

一勺泛着酸味、色泽暗红的果肉突兀地堵在第一助手嘴边，打断了她的自言自语。
A spoonful of sour, dark-red flesh is suddenly shoved into the chief assistant's mouth, stopping her from revealing any more.

十四行诗：唔？……好，好的。
Sonetto: Hm? O-Okay.

维尔汀：您做的腌菜非常美味，夫人，我从没在其他地方吃过这种东西，它是怎么做出来的？
Vertin: It really is delicious, madam. Quite different from any I've ever tasted. Might I ask how you made it?

佳琳娜夫人：啊，你们喜欢吃就再好不过。其实每家每户的腌西瓜都差不多，只是很多人都没注意，腌桶也很重要……
Galina: Ah, it warms an old woman's heart to hear such things. Nothing special, really. Though many underestimate the importance of the barrel.

佳琳娜夫人细致耐心地为客人们讲解腌西瓜的技巧，在座的人则再也没有谈论过时局，只是闷头吃午餐。
As Ms. Galina steadily shares her years-tested method of pickling watermelon, they leave behind talk of these troubled times.

木勺与铁质碗盆刮擦出凌乱的声响，其间夹杂着咀嚼吞咽食物的声音。
The sounds of wooden spoons scraping against steel bowls mingle with chewing and swallowing.

……
...

午餐最终在有些生涩的沉默中结束，佳琳娜夫人倚在门框上为客人送别。
The lunch finally ends in an uneasy silence. Leaning against the door, Ms. Galina says goodbye to her guests.

佳琳娜夫人：……实在是我没有招待好。
Galina: Apologies again for the poor meal.

军长伊万：不要这么想，妈妈，我们吃得都很好。我会一直惦记你做的炖菜的。
Commander Ivan: Hush now. The meal was hearty, and our bellies are full. There are few stews better than yours.

维尔汀：我也一样，夫人。
Vertin: Yes, it was just what we needed, madam.

在军长的劝慰下，老妇人终于关上了屋门。
After her son's reassuring words, the old lady finally closes the door.

军长伊万：我知道你有很多想问的，但这里不是说话的地方。
Commander Ivan: I know you have questions, but this is not the place to talk.

军长伊万：请跟我来。
Commander Ivan: Come. Walk with me.

村庄外围，繁茂的金色草原像围拢来的巨浪，一层层拍打着村落的堤岸。
Outside, layers of golden grass lap at the edge of the village like waves on a beach.

维尔汀：——佳琳娜夫人怎么会是你的“母亲”？
Vertin: How could Ms. Galina be your mother?

冷静而直接的提问让奇异的暖风都覆上了一层凉意。军长用手抚平领口的褶皱。
The directness of this question adds a touch of chill to the unusually warm air. The commander smooths a wrinkle in his collar.

军长伊万：我相信你和我一样，都见过“暴雨”将我们熟悉的，甚至是挚爱的人从面前带走。我们都经历过失去的痛苦。
Commander Ivan: Timekeeper, you know the same pain, yes? To witness the "Storm" take away those you love. We all do.

军长伊万：但你能肯定，当记忆中的那张脸鲜活地重现于眼前时，自己真的还能控制住那汹涌的依恋吗？
Commander Ivan: If that face appeared again, full of light and life before your eyes, could you still your heart?

维尔汀：……
Vertin: ...

军长伊万：我与她重逢的那个时代，她不是我的“母亲”，而是一位一生无子的教师。她把人生倾注在教育身上，一辈子都没有离开过工作的城市。
Commander Ivan: When I saw her again, she was no longer my mother, but a teacher with no children, devoted wholly to her students. She never once left home.

维尔汀：我们至今不知道这种现象为什么会发生。
Vertin: The reason for this phenomenon still remains unknown.

维尔汀：可“暴雨”后的他们，有完整的记忆、身份、社会关系——我们不能否认他们的独立意志，把我们的认知强加于他们身上。
Vertin: However, observations have shown that each of them has a complete memory, identity, and social relations. Their independent will is undeniable. We can't force them to be the person we think they are.

军长伊万：我知道，我当然知道。对未经历过“暴雨”的人而言，这种想法太荒谬了……我花了很长的时间，才让佳琳娜夫人接受我这个“孩子”。
Commander Ivan: I know, I know. To speak of the "Storm" would only break her. She would shun me. But in time, she took me as her "child."

军长伊万：我重新得到了母亲，这就够了。
Commander Ivan: In the end, I have a mother again. That is enough for me.

维尔汀：我很高兴你能想通这一点。
Vertin: I'm glad you figured it out.

军长伊万：想通？不，司辰，我恰恰没有想通。
Commander Ivan: Figured it out? Heh, the truth is the opposite, Timekeeper.

军长伊万：如果我“想通”了，我就不会追着佳琳娜夫人，希望在她身上寻找我母亲的蛛丝马迹。
Commander Ivan: I chased Galina like a lost pup, hoping to find my mother in her.

军长伊万：可我真的找到了——
Commander Ivan: And I did.

军长伊万：五官、皱纹、身形……或者说她所有外在的一切，都与我在第一次“暴雨”中失去的母亲如出一辙。甚至同我说话时，嘴角的弧度都与以往一模一样。
Commander Ivan: Her face, her body, every line and wrinkle—she is the mother I lost to the first "Storm," down to the gentle smile when she talks to me.

军长深呼吸了几下，好让自己的牙根不再颤抖。
The commander takes several deep breaths to stop his teeth from chattering.

军长伊万：回想你曾经失去的那些人，当他们现在就出现在你眼前，一切都是那么熟悉……只不过换了一身新的衣服，失去了一些记忆。
Commander Ivan: Think of it. Those you lost, standing before you again, only their clothes and memory changed.

军长伊万：你真的不会希望重新回到他们身边吗？你会如此残酷地把那些人从“暴雨”中消失这件事视作死亡吗？
Commander Ivan: Would you call them dead and gone? Would you not hold them close, praying memory returns?

维尔汀：……我不确定。
Vertin: It's hard to say.

维尔汀：我现在还没遇到过这样的事，也许我要经历过之后才知道该如何回答你。
Vertin: I've never personally dealt with such a thing. Perhaps I'll have an answer if I do.

军长不再追问，他转向眼前在风中低俯的草甸——一片在繁茂中枯萎的金黄色，永无止境地绵延到大陆的尽头。
The commander stops his questioning and turns to the meadow bowing before him, withering amid abundance, stretching endlessly into the horizon.

军长伊万：在这样的草原上，父亲将十岁不到的我抱上一匹栗色的牝马，教我如何控制缰绳。
Commander Ivan: It was on land like this that my father first set me on a chestnut mare and showed me the reins.

军长伊万：母亲就站在不远处，满脸忧虑，生怕我从马上坠下，但她也知道，这是每一个孩子的必经之路。
Commander Ivan: My mother watched on—afraid I would fall, no doubt. But she knew this was the way for every child.

军长伊万：几个世纪以来，哥萨克都过着这样的生活，在草原中成长，也狂妄地与它交战，如同最叛逆的孩童。
Commander Ivan: For centuries, the Cossacks have lived by the steppe. She feeds us, she fights us. Rebellion runs free in our blood.

军长伊万：草原从未变过，在这里生活的人也一样。有时我确实会恍惚——这真的是一个虚假的1920年吗？
Commander Ivan: The steppe never changes, nor do her people. Sometimes, I find myself asking: Is this truly a false 1920?

军长伊万：司辰，你是一个游走在很多个时代的人。我们之间有区别，不能互相理解。
Commander Ivan: You, Timekeeper, you have lived through many eras. We will never wholly understand one another.

维尔汀：据我所知，你从第一次“暴雨”中幸存，之后你也经历过不同的时代，我们没什么不同。
Vertin: From what I do understand, you are a survivor of the first "Storm." You've lived through all these eras too. I don't see the difference.

军长伊万：在经历第一次“暴雨”之前，我的生命就已经被烙下了我自己的时代与故乡的痕迹。
Commander Ivan: True. Yet I am marked by my hometown—my own time long before the "Storm" ever struck.

军长伊万：它们随着我来到一个又一个新时代，但我永远都只会是一个哥萨克。
Commander Ivan: I was forged a Cossack, and a Cossack I remain, no matter the era.

军长伊万：而你呢，司辰？你自己能说清楚，哪一个时代是属于你的时代吗？就算是1999年，对于你来说就不陌生吗？
Commander Ivan: And you, Timekeeper? Which era is your home? Even 1999 must feel like another world to you.

维尔汀：……
Vertin: ...

军长伊万：我绝对不是在否定你生活的意义，我知道失去时代与故国的感觉会在人的胸口上留下多大的创口。
Commander Ivan: I do not belittle your path. I only say, losing time and home leaves a wound in the heart.

军长伊万：其实，抛开一切政治因素，我相当尊敬你。你是所有人、所有时代的司辰，还有人把你看作是救世主。
Commander Ivan: Politics aside, I respect you. You are the Timekeeper, the master of all ages and all people. Many consider you a savior.

军长伊万：而我只是一个凡人，有自己的家乡和亲族……芝诺不信任我是有理由的。
Commander Ivan: And I? I am but a man with mortal ties. Zeno has every reason to keep me at arm's length.

老哥萨克觉得自己已经把话说完，便扶正了被风吹斜的帽子，将欲离去。
This is all the old Cossack has to say. He adjusts his wind-blown hat and makes to leave.

维尔汀：等等，军长。
Vertin: Commander, wait.

军长伊万：我们还有什么话没有说完吗？
Commander Ivan: Yes? What more is there to say?

维尔汀：我没有权力影响你的决定，但我自己也有来到这里的任务。
Vertin: I have no power to change your decision, but I have a mission here.

维尔汀：我需要知道的是，你真的会按照芝诺的命令，将军队开往别列格勒吗？
Vertin: I need to know. Will you follow Zeno's orders and lead your army to Bereggrad?

军长伊万：我会把你安全送到城内，协助你完成基金会的任务。这是我对你的承诺。
Commander Ivan: I will see you safe to the city and stand with you in your mission. This I swear.

维尔汀：我明白你的意思了。
Vertin: I understand.

？？？：军长——！
???: Commander!

站在村外的人回头望去，隔得老远就能望见那道四肢并用的人影。
They turn back to see a figure rushing toward them, arms flailing.

谢尔盖：军长，您怎么到这里来了？刚才我去你家没见到您。
Sergey: Commander, what are you doing out here? I thought you were at home.

军长伊万：发生了什么事？
Commander Ivan: What's the matter?

谢尔盖：他们——他们喝了太多，全都打起架来了！
Sergey: Th-They got too drunk. A brawl's broken out!

12TH-07 河流两岸 / Both Sides of the River

众多身穿芝诺骑兵制服的青年将房屋包围起来，与之为伴的还有很多年龄更小、未到服役年龄的少年。
Several young men in Zeno cavalry uniforms surround the house, along with some boys not yet old enough to serve.

一对身穿衬衫的男女被堵在房门口的台阶上。从面貌上来看，这应该是对兄妹。兄长身上已经遍布血污。
A boy and a girl are trapped at the doorstep. Judging by their resemblance, they're siblings. The brother is covered in blood.

芝诺骑兵Ⅰ：唔！
Zeno Cavalryman I: Oourgh!

准备冲上前的骑兵趔趄着退后，撞在人墙上。
A cavalryman, poised to charge, stumbles back and crashes into the line of men behind him.

一位骑士站在包围圈中，成为骑兵与台阶上的兄妹之间唯一的屏障。
A knight stands at the circle's center, the only barrier between the cavalrymen and the two children.

玛尔纱：还有谁想当下一个？
Marsha: Who's next?

芝诺骑兵Ⅱ：该死的外乡人，这不关你的事！
Zeno Cavalryman II: This has nothing to do with you, outsider!

又一位骑兵从人群中走出，摩拳擦掌。
Another cavalryman steps out of the crowd, ready to fight.

军长伊万：所有人，散开！
Commander Ivan: Scatter!

军长的呵斥立竿见影，喧闹的骑兵们噤若寒蝉。
One word from the commander immediately silences the cavalrymen.

他们不自觉地退到一旁，为军长让出一条通往房屋的道路。
They instinctively step aside, clearing a path to the house for him.

玛尔纱：……军长。
Marsha: Commander.

骑士和气地收起武器。
The knight puts away her weapon.

玛尔纱：希望你不介意我给你的士兵留下了一些淤青。
Marsha: Forgive me for bruising your soldiers.

玛尔纱：我不是在干涉骑兵军的内部事务，只是，这起事件很可能会给军队之外的人造成十分严重的伤害。
Marsha: I don't mean to interfere with the Cavalry Corps's internal affairs, but this incident could cause serious harm to people outside the military.

军长以手势告诉玛尔纱，无须在意这场斗殴中的形式细节。
The commander raises a hand, prompting her to skip the formalities.

军长伊万：这里发生了什么？
Commander Ivan: What is this?

玛尔纱：有人在这对兄妹家中发现了藏起来的陌生武器。营里的人打探了一番，得知他们的叔叔昨夜出村投奔了匪军。
Marsha: Someone discovered a stash of unfamiliar weapons in these two children's house. It seems their uncle joined the bandits last night.

军长伊万：这一家人……我记得都是神秘学家。
Commander Ivan: These children. They're from an arcanist family.

玛尔纱：是。之前村里还有少数神秘学家逃向上游，扬言要和匪军一起打回来，抢走其他人的财物。
Marsha: Yes. Some arcanist villagers fled upstream, claiming they would join the bandits and return to rob the others.

玛尔纱：所以，一些人决定提前烧了他们的房子作为报复。
Marsha: Some soldiers thought it prudent to do a preemptive strike.

军长伊万：……
Commander Ivan: ...

军长以严厉的目光扫视骑兵军士兵，他们闪躲的眼神印证了骑士的说辞确凿无误。
The commander looks over his soldiers sternly. Their evasive eyes prove the knight's words.

军长伊万：你有没有受伤？
Commander Ivan: Are you hurt?

玛尔纱：他们没有伤到我。
Marsha: No. They didn't harm me.

军长伊万：感谢你没有让事情变得无法挽回，玛尔纱女士，之后的事情交给我处理。
Commander Ivan: You've stopped the worst. Thank you, Ms. Marsha. Leave them to me.

玛尔纱：当然。
Marsha: Certainly.

骑士无意参与争斗。她收拾好装备，通过骑兵们让出来的一条道路离开了现场。
The knight has no intention to fight. She packs her equipment and takes the cleared path to leave.

军长来到护住妹妹的兄长身边。他看起来还不到参军的年龄。
The commander approaches the young boy on the step. He appears to be below the enlistment age.

军长想开口说些什么，但是已经从对方的眼神中看出了抗拒。他只好先放他们回到屋内。
The commander tries to say something, but sees only refusal in the young boy's eyes. He gives a gentle gesture for them to enter their home.

他转过身，踏上台阶。
He turns, still standing tall at the doorstep, and faces his men.

军长伊万：也许有一刻，我们会在敌阵中见到自己的同乡——我知道谁都不想打一场这样的仗。
Commander Ivan: There may come a day when we cross blades with our townsfolk—a day none of us prays to see.

军长伊万：这场战争会在我们和我们后代的心中留下伤疤。在我们眼前流过的顿河会记住这些事，百年之后也不会遗忘。
Commander Ivan: This war will scar us. It will scar our children, our children's children. The Don will carry our deeds for centuries.

军长伊万：投奔匪军的人会成为我们的敌人，我们的子弹与马刀会剖开他们的胸膛。
Commander Ivan: Those who take up arms with bandits are our enemies. And we will answer with bullet and blade.

军长伊万：但他们的家人不应该遭到报复，我们不能残害自己的同胞，否则我们就和那些土匪没什么两样。
Commander Ivan: But their families will not suffer. They are our people, her people. No harm will come to them by our hand, else we become those we fight.

芝诺骑兵Ⅰ：那我们还在等什么？——为什么要进城去？
Zeno Cavalryman I: Then-Then what are we waiting for? Why are we stationing in the city?

芝诺骑兵Ⅱ：我们不是守城的步兵，应该在城外打败匪军！
Zeno Cavalryman II: We aren't city guards. We're riders! We should be out on the steppe hunting down the bandits!

芝诺骑兵Ⅰ：没……没错！不能让土匪在城外烧我们的村子。我家就在上游，怎么能让我蹲在城里看着自己的家被烧掉呢？
Zeno Cavalryman I: R-Right. These are our homes they're destroying. How can we just stay in the city and watch them burn?

芝诺骑兵Ⅱ：如果骑兵军不去，就让我们自己去，每个连的人都回到自己的村子，自己负责！
Zeno Cavalryman II: If the cavalry won't go, then we should go ourselves. Split up by village and defend our own!

军长伊万：那你们就会一个连接一个连地被敌人杀光，顿河的水会变成你们亲人流出的血！
Commander Ivan: Then the enemy will seize the chance, and one by one, the blood of you and your families will water the Don.

芝诺骑兵：……
Zeno Cavalryman: ...

军长伊万：我们只有组成一支团结有纪律的军队，才有资格说，自己是为顿河的和平而战，才能赶走蹂躏土地的施暴者。
Commander Ivan: We fight for the peace of the steppe. If she is to flourish as she once did, then we must stand united upon her plains.

军长伊万：我禁止骑兵军中再次发生和讨论这样的事。而今天在场所有参与斗殴的人都将受到应有的处罚。
Commander Ivan: No more words on this. I forbid it. All those who brawled will be punished as necessary.

军长伊万：现在，回去找你们的长官。进城前的休整取消，一小时之后，全体出发。
Commander Ivan: Now, go to your chief and get packed. The rest period is canceled. We ride in one hour.

一小时后，停留不多时的骑兵军离开了红柳树村，沿着河流向上游的别列格勒城而去。
An hour later, the cavalry leaves Tamarovka, where they have barely paused, to make their advance upstream along the river toward Bereggrad.

上万名骑兵占据了行军队列头部的主要长度，在这之后的是少量的步兵，以及漫长的辎重队伍。
Thousands of cavalrymen make up most of the head of the marching column. Behind them follow a small number of infantry units and a long supply team.

谢尔盖：你们能同意和我一起走前锋真是太好了，和你们聊天有意思得很，可以听听外面的故事。
Sergey: Ah, so good you joined me at the vanguard. Interesting company, the two of you, what with all your stories from the west!

梅蕾尔：不是你非要和我们一起走的吗……
Merel: Pretty sure it was you who insisted on coming with us.

玛尔纱：这倒让我想起在骑士团的时候，我也当过好几次斥候骑兵。不过这可不是一个能开小差的职位。
Marsha: Heh. Reminds me of my days scouting for the Order. It wasn't an easy position to be in.

谢尔盖仰头看了看天。
Sergey looks up at the sky.

谢尔盖：这样下去，大部队在天黑之前应该是进不了城了。在这里下马吧，我们等一等身后的人。
Sergey: Hm. At this rate, it'll be dark before half the Corps sees the city. Best we hop off and wait for the others to catch up.

为大军开路的斥候小队在一处有阴凉遮蔽的缓坡边下了马。
The scouting unit clearing the way for the march dismounts on a gentle slope, taking shelter in the shade of a tree.

玛尔纱：梅蕾尔，小心，你这样下马会扭断腿的。扶住我。
Marsha: Careful, Merel. You'll break a leg if you dismount like that. Here, take my hand.

率先落地的玛尔纱来到被困在马上的梅蕾尔身边，扶她下马。
Having already dismounted, Marsha walks over and helps Merel off her horse.

梅蕾尔：……谢、谢谢，玛尔纱，终于可以休息一会儿了。
Merel: Th-Thank you, Marsha. Finally a bit of a break.

玛尔纱：谢尔盖，你刚刚说天黑之后才能进城？这么说，我们有一截路是要在夜里走。
Marsha: Sergey, the sun will go down before we arrive? Then, we'll be transitioning to a night march.

谢尔盖：是啊，按照计划，原本是在红柳树村过一夜，第二天清早出发。谁家进城是下午出门的？
Sergey: Yeah. We were supposed to put up for a night in Tamarovka and leave at dawn. What kind of army starts a march in the afternoon?

玛尔纱：在摸不清敌人动向的情况下，夜间行军是一件相当危险的事。军长为什么这么着急？
Marsha: Night marches come with considerable dangers, especially when we don't know the enemy's movements. What's got the commander so anxious?

谢尔盖：当将军的，要考虑的事情可比我们要多多了，我知道当将军是怎么回事。
Sergey: He's a commander. He must have his reasons. Believe me. I know what it takes to lead a troop.

谢尔盖：我的曾祖父就是一个大将军，和沙皇一起打过拿破仑，还往家里带回了一大堆勋章，只不过后来都弄丢了。
Sergey: My great-grandfather was a general, you know. Fought off Napoleon side by side with the Tsar himself! Came home with a chest of medals, too. Shame my family lost them.

在没有同乡嘲笑的情况下，谢尔盖吹起牛来有些上不封顶了。
Without the taunts of his townsfolk, there's no one to rein in Sergey's bragging.

谢尔盖：唉，真要说，估计是想早点把基金会老爷的事给安排妥当，好把她送走吧。
Sergey: If you ask me, it's because of the Timekeeper. The sooner she finishes up whatever it is she wants to do in the city, the sooner he can send her on her way.

谢尔盖大大咧咧地发表着猜想，丝毫没留意到面前的人就隶属于基金会。
Sergey voices his opinion freely, not realizing that the person in front of him is a member of the Foundation.

谢尔盖：等那个司辰一走，骑兵军也就不用把自己困在城里了。你也知道，玛尔纱，顿河的土匪不解决不行啊。
Sergey: Then we won't be stuck guarding the city, and we can finally show the bandits what's what. You know how dangerous they are.

梅蕾尔：真想知道司辰到这种地方来做什么。
Merel: What's the Timekeeper doing here?

玛尔纱：你也可以去问问司辰——说起来，你和她是一个学校的，年纪也差不多，为什么你和她不是同学？
Marsha: You could always ask her. Aren't the two of you around the same age? Wouldn't you have been classmates at school?

梅蕾尔：还是别提这回事了……在我入学的那一年，维尔汀已经是司辰了，她根本不在学校里。
Merel: Seriously? Can't we just drop this? Vertin was already the Timekeeper by the time I got there. I never saw her in school.

玛尔纱：第一防线学校——全都是神秘学家的学校，那应该是个很有意思的地方。
Marsha: The SPDM—a school full of arcanists. It should be an interesting place.

梅蕾尔：其实也没那么有意思。
Merel: Not as much as you'd think.

梅蕾尔：虽然全都是神秘学家小孩，但每天都教些“为人类利益服务”“人类存续至高使命”什么的东西……
Merel: Everything we learnt was "for the benefit of humanity" and "the supreme mission of human survival."

梅蕾尔：早上6点起床的广播是用十二种语言播放校训，《学生守则》比《牛津词典》还要厚。
Merel: Every day, there's a morning broadcast of the school motto in 12 languages, and the Student Handbook's thicker than the Oxford Dictionary.

梅蕾尔：简直就是监狱——学校的围墙上甚至有电网，你能想象吗——230伏！不间断地滋滋响。
Merel: Oh, and the fence? It's electrocuted! Can you imagine? 230 volts of electricity buzzing day and night! It's more like a prison than a school.

梅蕾尔：倒是想起个事，学校里流传着曾有学生集体“越狱”——传说那个司辰就是“越狱”行动的主谋。
Merel: There was a rumor back then that a group of students managed to escape. People said it was the Timekeeper who organized it.

玛尔纱：司辰？这倒是看不出来，她看起来总是很平静。
Marsha: The Timekeeper? That's difficult to imagine. She seems very level-headed.

梅蕾尔：她挺可怕的，听说她就是个孩子王。
Merel: People were kind of scared of her. Apparently she was their leader.

玛尔纱：怎么，你或者其他同学受过她的欺负吗？
Marsha: Did she or the other children bully you?

梅蕾尔怔住了。
Merel freezes at the question.

梅蕾尔：当然没有，为什么要这么问？
Merel: Not at all. Why do you ask?

玛尔纱：骑士团里也有一些“孩子王”，我还小的时候就被他们欺负过。
Marsha: I was bullied by someone of that type when I was in the Order.

玛尔纱轻巧地说着，像在描述课本里的内容，而不是一段难以启齿的回忆。
Marsha speaks as if it were nothing more than a passage from a textbook.

玛尔纱：那时候我的年龄还不到现在的一半，作为神秘学家，在接受正式的骑士团训练之前，体能也非常差。
Marsha: I was about half the age I am now. As an arcanist, my physical fitness was poor before I received training from the Order.

玛尔纱：一些年纪比较大的侍从经常会为难我这样的新人，我们根本不是他们的对手。
Marsha: Some older squires would give newcomers like me a hard time. We didn't stand a chance.

梅蕾尔：侍从是什么？
Merel: What's a squire?

玛尔纱：为骑士服务的人，通常也是骑士的候选人。
新人会从杂役做起，学习骑士团的神秘术。掌握熟练的人可以成为侍从。
Marsha: They serve the knights and are usually candidates for knighthood. Newcomers take on menial tasks while they study the arcane skills of the Order. Those who master them become squires.

梅蕾尔：而你最后当上了骑士——真厉害。你在训练的时候就想着要上战场吗？
Merel: Wow, and you ended up a knight! Did you train thinking you'd go to war?

玛尔纱：在战争爆发之前，我都觉得战争只是一个遥远的、光鲜亮丽的神话。
Marsha: War ... I had always pictured it as something far off—a legendary battle of dreams and ideals.

玛尔纱：人们带着守护理想的信念才踏上战场……不过现在我已经不会这么天真了。
Marsha: Until it broke out. I'm no longer so naive.

梅蕾尔：……
Merel: ...

梅蕾尔：那些曾经欺负过你的人，后来一定被你教训得很惨吧？
Merel: You must've taught those bullies of yours a lesson, right?

红发骑士神秘莫测地笑了笑。
Marsha's mouth curls into a mysterious smile.

玛尔纱：骑士团中只有非常、非常少的侍从有资格晋升为骑士。
Marsha: *chuckle* Very few squires are granted knighthood.

一直在旁听的哥萨克打断了二人的谈话。
Sergey, who has been listening along, cuts in.

谢尔盖：好了，我看也休息够了。出发吧，可别让最前排的队伍看见我们几个坐在这儿休息。
Sergey: Alright, rest's over. Back in your saddles. Better not let the team see us lounging around.

谢尔盖抖擞精神，起身检查了一遍马鞍的肚带是否牢固。小队中的其他人也跟着行动起来。
Sergey straightens up and checks that the saddles are securely fastened. The others follow suit.

谢尔盖：翻过眼前这道坡，我们就能看见别列格勒城了。
Sergey: You'll see Bereggrad once we reach the top of the slope.

他策马缓步向坡顶走去。
He rides slowly toward the top.

谢尔盖：你们说的事可真新鲜，我小时候就无聊多了。对了，有空的话，进城之后我带你们逛逛，我可是熟悉得很。
Sergey: Those were some stories. Didn't have anything half as exciting in my childhood. By the way, I can show you around the city if you've got time. I know it well.

谢尔盖：我知道一家土耳其人开的饭店，烤肉的味道是真不错！唉……就是不知道他是不是逃难去了……
Sergey: There's a Turkish place that makes the best kebabs! Ah, but they might've fled already.

作为领头人，谢尔盖很快来到了坡顶。
Leading the way, Sergey quickly reaches the top of the slope.

谢尔盖：你们看，这就是——什么？
Sergey: Behold! The Don's great—What?

谢尔盖猛拉缰绳，在快要越过坡顶时勒住了马。
Sergey pulls hard on the reins, stopping his horse just before the crest.

玛尔纱：怎么了？
Marsha: What's wrong?

谢尔盖：不，是我眼花了？别列格勒城下怎么有……这么多人？
Sergey: Wait. Am I seeing things? Why are there so many people outside the city?

身后人纷纷来到坡顶。在骑兵军的必经之路上，横亘着一道黑压压的人墙。
They ride up to his side. A dark crowd forms a wall across the Cavalry Corps's route to Bereggrad.

玛尔纱：是一支……军队，他们拦住了通往别列格勒的道路。
Marsha: This is an army. They're blocking the entrance.

谢尔盖：怎、怎么会在这个时候——
Sergey: What? At this time of day?

玛尔纱：谢尔盖，回去告诉军长停止行军，我和梅蕾尔留在这里观察城下军队的动向。快去！
Marsha: Sergey, tell the commander to halt the march. Merel and I will stay and observe their movements. Go!

谢尔盖：好……好！
Sergey: A-Alright!

军长伊万：别列格勒城下？——你看清他们的样子了吗？
是匪军，还是别的什么军队？
Commander Ivan: Outside Bereggrad? Did you get a clear look? Bandits or other forces?

谢尔盖：我……不太看得清，但我敢肯定不是匪军。他们绝对不会有那么多人的，而且……我好像还看到了装甲车。
Sergey: I ... I'm not sure. But they're definitely not bandits. There are too many of them and ... I think I saw armored cars.

谢尔盖：对了，还有一面旗帜，上面有狮鹫的图案。
Sergey: Oh, and a banner, with a gryphon on it.

军长伊万：狮鹫……
Commander Ivan: A gryphon ...

军长止住了接下来的话。
The commander's brow darkens.

军长伊万：你和其他传令兵一起去通知各团停止前进，在别列格勒城外的高地上结成防线。但是不要主动与敌军交火。
Commander Ivan: Hold all regiments. Halt the advance and take the high ground outside Bereggrad. Do not engage.

谢尔盖：是，军长。
Sergey: Yes, Commander.

临时传令官飞奔而去。军长转向身侧神色凝重的参谋长，以及率领空中力量的飞行女巫。
The temporary liaison rushes off. The commander turns to the solemn chief of staff and Flying Witch captain at his side.

斯捷尔诺娃：狮鹫旗帜。
Sternova: A gryphon ...

军长伊万：……是伊戈尔本人使用的军旗。
Commander Ivan: Igor's banner.

斯捷尔诺娃：这么说他就在顿河，就在别列格勒城下，在离我们不过半天路程的地方。
Sternova: So he's here, just outside Bereggrad, only half a day's march away.

斯捷尔诺娃：我们得到的命令是前往别列格勒，如果伊戈尔拦住了我们的去路或是展露敌意，我们有理由对他发动进攻。
Sternova: Our orders are to enter Bereggrad. If Igor blocks our way or tries to attack, we have reason to engage.

军长伊万：但别列格勒城以及城里的居民正在他的控制之下。
Commander Ivan: But the city and its people may already be under his thumb.

军长伊万：如果上游村庄发生的那些事都是伊戈尔所为，那么他也会用城市里的生命作为威胁，阻止我们前进。
Commander Ivan: If the upstream villages truly were pillaged by his hand, then he may threaten us with the lives of Bereggrad's people.

军长不自觉搭上了腰间的佩枪，冰冷的金属触感令他稍微冷静了一点。
The commander's hand instinctively reaches for the gun at his waist. The cold metal calms his nerves.

军长伊万：红弩箭中尉，我需要你的人从空中确认伊戈尔军的数量和具体部署。
Commander Ivan: Lieutenant Lilya, your unit will confirm the number and formation of Igor's army.

军长伊万：遇到防空火力就尽快撤退，尽量不要有损失。
Commander Ivan: Retreat if attacked. Suffer no losses.

红弩箭：交给我吧。
Lilya: On it.

12TH-08 谈判者，审判者 / The Negotiators and the Judge

一道开阔的浅谷远远分隔开两支迎面相望的大军。
A shallow valley separates the two armies.

大陆的风卷起草籽与尘埃，骑兵胯下的战马在这份奇异的宁静之下焦躁不安。
The wind stirs seeds and dust. The warhorses grow restless under the eerie silence.

芝诺军官Ⅰ：该死的，真的是他。伊戈尔，找了他这么久，居然在别列格勒冒出来了。他到底想做什么？
Zeno Officer I: I'll be damned. It's really him—Igor. After all this time, he just shows up here in Bereggrad? What's he trying to do, exactly?

芝诺军官Ⅱ：不管想做什么，但愿他快动手吧，这样我们就能狠狠揍他一顿了。我看他看我们也不顺眼。
Zeno Officer II: Whatever it is, he should do it soon so we can end him. I bet he wants to take his chances against us too.

芝诺军官Ⅲ：也未必，上校，你不也知道吗？在南极行动之后，伊戈尔和重塑之手就不是一路人了。
Zeno Officer III: Not so fast. You know Igor parted ways with Manus Vindictae after the Antarctic operation.

芝诺军官Ⅰ：你替一个叛徒说什么话？
Zeno Officer I: Are you on that traitor's side?

芝诺军官Ⅱ：那也和我们不是一路人！
Zeno Officer II: He parted ways with us too!

返航飞行扫帚的引擎声短暂地盖过了地面上的争执。
The roar of broom engines on their return flight briefly drowns out the quarrel below.

芝诺军官Ⅲ：够了，够了！别吵了，飞行中队返航了。
Zeno Officer III: Alright, alright! Quit your bickering! The flight unit's back.

芝诺军官Ⅲ：接下来要怎么做，只有军长能做决定。
Zeno Officer III: It's all up to the commander now.

军长放下望远镜，等待着带来消息的飞行女巫从空中降落。
The commander lowers his telescope as he awaits the Flying Witches' news.

红弩箭出现在Su-02ве尾流扬起的一阵尘土中。
Lilya emerges from a whirl of dust stirred up by the Su-02ве.

军长伊万：情况如何？
Commander Ivan: Status?

红弩箭：怪事。我看见伊戈尔的军队里明明有防空火力，但没有对我们的侦察造成干扰。
Lilya: It's weird. It's Igor all right, Triple-As and all, but they didn't attack.

红弩箭：我还专门飞到很低的地方，几乎能和地面的士兵对上眼，但他们就是没有向我们开火。
Lilya: I flew low, too, even looked eye-to-eye with the soldiers, but they still held fire.

红弩箭：至于城内，我暂时没看到有遭到破坏的迹象，而且伊戈尔也没有向城市里大规模派遣军队。
Lilya: As for the city, there's no signs of damage or Igor's men.

斯捷尔诺娃：他把所有人都安排在城外？
Sternova: His soldiers are all outside the city?

红弩箭：没错，主力部队还在通往城市的主路一旁，就好像是刻意要让我们看见。
Lilya: Yeah. Got his main force positioned along the main road to it. It's like he wants us to see him.

军长伊万：刻意让我们看见……
Commander Ivan: He wants us to see him.

红弩箭：嗯，如果他们想阻止骑兵军前进，直接占领城市也是个好选择。但显然伊戈尔没有这么做。
Lilya: If he wanted to stop our advance, capturing the city would've been the best bet.

红弩箭：他就像是专门在这儿等着和我们见面。
Lilya: It's almost like he's welcoming us.

军长伊万：……
Commander Ivan: ...

军长再次拿起望远镜观察对方军中的动向，这次，他看见一名士兵策马从伊戈尔军中脱离。
The commander raises his telescope again. This time, he spots a soldier riding out from Igor's army.

军长伊万：什么？
Commander Ivan: What?

信使穿越两军对峙中的空地，逐渐接近骑兵军。他身上的叛军制服引起了不小的骚动。
The messenger crosses the ground between the two forces, drawing closer to the cavalry. His rebel uniform causes quite a stir.

红弩箭：是他——！
Lilya: That's—

军长伊万：先别急，中尉，让我们听听他带来了什么消息。
Commander Ivan: Calm yourself, Lieutenant. A rider must assess the terrain before he takes to a gallop.

军长按下了可能的擦枪走火。信使接近了骑兵军的军阵，随后在警卫连士兵的伴随下来到了军长面前。
The commander holds fire. The messenger reaches the cavalry formation and approaches the commander, escorted by a guard.

托勒密：伊万·伊万诺维奇军长，好久不见。
Ptolemy: Commander Ivan Ivanovich. It's been a while.

军长伊万：好久不见，托勒密。你给我带来了什么消息？
Commander Ivan: A long time indeed. What message do you bring, Ptolemy?

叛军信使直直盯着军长，认真履行着“父亲”派下的任务。
The messenger stares straight into the commander's eyes, intent on carrying out the mission entrusted to him by his father.

托勒密：伊戈尔将军想与您，以及目前受您保护的司辰会谈。
Ptolemy: Admiral Igor wishes to talk with you and the Timekeeper, who's currently under your protection.

托勒密：他有很重要的事情要与二位商讨——关于别列格勒，关于顿河，关于……司辰来别列格勒的使命。
Ptolemy: There's something important he wants to discuss, about Bereggrad, the Don, and the Timekeeper's mission.

维尔汀：……伊戈尔掌握着我需要的消息。
Vertin: Igor has the information I need.

军长伊万：看来他知道你为什么到顿河来，当然，这也可能只是他的骗局。
Commander Ivan: Seems he knows why you're here. Though this could be a ploy.

十四行诗：让司辰和伊戈尔见面太危险了。我们可以和对方交换通讯设备，代替面谈。
Sonetto: Hmm. It's too dangerous for the Timekeeper to meet Igor in person. They should speak via communication device instead.

维尔汀：如果伊戈尔提出要和我以及军长面谈，那这个条件应该是不能退让的。更何况他派了自己绝对的亲信来传递口信。
Vertin: They could easily have reached us through such devices. Given this message was brought by one of his most trusted subordinates ...

维尔汀：不然，想用无线设备联系到我们应该并不困难。
Vertin: I don't think it's negotiable.

维尔汀：你怎么看，军长？
Vertin: What are your thoughts, Commander?

面对众人，军长发现自己是最难做出决定的那一个。
The commander finds himself the most unsure of his decision.

军长伊万：我的确很想知道他到底在顿河做什么。况且，他把军队停在城下，似乎也是一种坦率的表现……
Commander Ivan: I want to know his purpose here, and him stationing outside the city does look like a gesture of goodwill.

军长伊万：但是，从原则上说，我不应该和叛军首领私下见面。这件事情无法隐瞒，一定会被联合委员会知晓。
Commander Ivan: That said, I shouldn't meet him in private. Word will surely reach the Joint Committee.

维尔汀：我明白你的担忧。不过，至少我是会去见伊戈尔的。
Vertin: I understand your concerns. But either way, I'll meet him.

十四行诗：——司辰？！
Sonetto: Timekeeper?!

维尔汀：我目前对任务需要的情报几乎一无所知，我想听听他会说什么，哪怕是个骗局。
Vertin: I currently have almost no information on my mission. I'd like to know what he has to say, even if it's a lie.

军长凝思片刻。
The commander pauses to consider.

军长伊万：我得到的命令是尽量不与伊戈尔发生冲突，那么接受会面也是完成命令的一种方式，只不过……
Commander Ivan: Our orders are to avoid confrontation. Accepting his request may be the way to do that. But ...

军长伊万：我是否参与会面只能你来做决定，司辰。
Commander Ivan: Whether I join the meeting is your decision.

维尔汀：我？
Vertin: Me?

军长伊万：委员会不会质疑你与伊戈尔见面的动机，所以，如果我要参与会面，最好是你来决定，而我配合你的行动。
Commander Ivan: The Committee will not question your motivations. If I attend, let it be by your bidding.

军长伊万：只有这样，事后如果有针对此事的问询，我才有为自己辩护的空间。
Commander Ivan: Then, if they question me, I will have my defense.

维尔汀：……好的，我接受这个方案。
Vertin: I see. I'll make the decision.

十四行诗：可是，我们要如何保证司辰和各位的安全？
Sonetto: But how can we ensure the safety of the Timekeeper and the others?

红弩箭：见伊戈尔？这我得和你一起去，头儿，我真想听听他要说些什么。
Lilya: Meeting Igor, huh? Take me with you, Vertin. I'd like to hear what he's got to say.

维尔汀：那么，我同意伊戈尔的会面要求，军长也要与我一同前往。
Vertin: Alright. I accept Igor's invitation, and I request the commander join me.

维尔汀：不过，红弩箭要作为护卫参加会谈，而伊戈尔也可以带上自己的护卫，保障双方的安全。
Vertin: To ensure the safety of both parties, I suggest we each bring our own bodyguards. Lilya will be ours.

十四行诗：您的护卫还可以增加一人，司辰。
Sonetto: You could use another, Timekeeper.

维尔汀：十四行诗，你知道我来别列格勒的任务细节。我们至少要有一个人留在安全的地方。
Vertin: Sonetto, you're the only one who knows the details of the mission besides myself. One of us should stay in a safe place.

红弩箭：别担心，有我在，保管会把维尔汀完完整整地带回来。
Lilya: Relax. I'll bring Vertin back in one piece.

十四行诗：……我明白了。司辰，请千万要小心。在你走之前，我会为你准备一张传送软盘。
Sonetto: Understood. Please be careful, Timekeeper. I'll prepare a teleport disk for you.

军长伊万：那眼下的方案就是这样了。我去派人回复伊戈尔的信使。
Commander Ivan: So it stands. I'll send a rider to Igor's messenger.

军长伊万：会面地点就在两军中间的开阔地上，双方都在各自的火力打击范围之内。
Commander Ivan: We meet on the open plain, within striking distance of both sides.

在两军对峙的前线，空气都仿佛被互相敌视的军队所压缩。
In that space between armies, the air seems to tighten under the antagonistic stares of the opposing sides.

数万双眼睛紧盯着谷地中孤零零的数人——在空旷的草地中，他们以步行互相接近。
Tens of thousands of eyes are fixed on the few figures at the center of the valley. They walk toward each other across the open grassland.

维尔汀：……
Vertin: ...

伊戈尔先一步抵达预定的位置，他颇有耐心地在原地等待。
Igor arrives first at the designated location and waits patiently.

他孤身一人，没有任何护卫跟随。
He stands alone, not a single guard at his side.

伊戈尔：不得不以这种方式与你们再次见面，我感到很遗憾。
Igor: I'm sorry that this is the way we meet again.

维尔汀：我也感到遗憾，伊戈尔——你想和我谈什么？
Vertin: I feel the same, Igor. What did you want to talk about?

叛军首领对于自己被忽略的军衔并不以为意。
The rebel leader seems unfazed by his opponent's omission of rank.

伊戈尔：“暴雨”后，你帮助莫莉德尔避开了基金会的搜查，安全离开南极。我需要为此向你表达我的谢意。
Igor: After the last "Storm," you helped Moldir escape Antarctica and avoid investigation by the Foundation. You have my thanks.

维尔汀：她为我们的计划带来了额外助力，这是对她的报偿。
Vertin: She provided us valuable support. I simply returned the favor.

红弩箭：如果只是为了表达感谢，这个阵仗也太大费周章了。让我问得更直接点：你的目的是什么？
Lilya: If that's all you got to say, then send a thank-you letter. Get to the point: what do you want?

伊戈尔看向伊万，对方一直谨慎地缄口不语，只是在观察。
Igor glances at Ivan, who watches in silence.

伊戈尔：我只是想澄清一些事实。
Igor: There are some matters I want to clarify.

红弩箭：事实？——你想从哪里说起，从你第一次穿上芝诺的制服开始，还是从圣保罗开始？
Lilya: Where you want to start? From the first time you put on the Zeno uniform? Or from São Paulo?

伊戈尔：那就从圣保罗开始。
Igor: São Paulo. Let's start there.

将军在所有人的意料之外，吐出了这个带有刺痛感的城市名字。
To everyone's surprise, the admiral lets out the city's name. The sound of it almost stings.

伊万的眼角显而易见地抽搐了一下。
The corner of Ivan's eye twitches.

伊戈尔：在抵达圣保罗之前，我与“死去”的阿尔卡纳达成了一项交易。
Igor: Before I arrived in São Paulo, I struck a deal with the "dead" Arcana.

维尔汀：你是说，在阿尔卡纳第一次死亡之后，你与祂有过交流？
Vertin: You communicated with Arcana after her death?

伊戈尔：是的。既然你见证了南极发生的事，那我就不必解释为什么阿尔卡纳的声音可以进入我的头脑。
Igor: Yes. You witnessed the events in Antarctica. I trust there is no need to explain why I heard Her voice.

伊戈尔：死亡与复活都是祂渴望构筑的神话的一环，我拒绝成为祂的使徒，但我急迫地需要祂提供的回报。
Igor: Death and resurrection are part of the myth She aimed to construct. I refused to become Her follower, but I desperately needed the reward only She could provide.

维尔汀：阿尔卡纳需要兀尔德完成复活的仪式，那你需要的是什么？
Vertin: Arcana needed Urd to complete her resurrection ritual. What did you need?

伊戈尔：一份真正的庇护。
Igor: A true shelter.

伊戈尔：一份“奇迹”，一处“秘境”，一道来自超然存在的“许诺”。祂用了很多词来修饰这一只小立方体。
Igor: A "boon," a "hidden place," a "promise" from the Surpassing Excellence. She used many words for this little cube.

维尔汀：……
Vertin: ...

伊戈尔：它是否让你有一种熟悉感，司辰？
Igor: Is it familiar to you, Timekeeper?

维尔汀：它的材质有点类似于“科马拉之雨”……
Vertin: The material's similar to the Tear of Comala.

伊戈尔：同源之物，但作用不尽相同。
Igor: The origin is the same, but their function is different.

伊戈尔手握成拳，那被用多种词语修饰的黑色立方体凭空消失。
Igor clenches his fist, and the black cube disappears.

维尔汀：如果你只是为了躲避“暴雨”，根本不需要和阿尔卡纳做交易。基金会就可以为你提供庇护。
Vertin: Why make a deal with Arcana if just to avoid the "Storm"? The Foundation already provides you shelter.

伊戈尔：而等你了解兀尔德与琥珀屋之后，就能理解我为什么不能信任基金会的诺言。他们选择了一条更险恶的路。
Igor: When you learn of Urd and the Amber Room, you will understand why I cannot trust the Foundation's promises. They have chosen a perilous path.

近期被反复提及的字眼拨动了脑中一根金色的弦。
The name, mentioned too many times of late, plucks at a golden thread in her mind.

维尔汀：你也知道琥珀屋……
Vertin: You know about the Amber Room too.

伊戈尔：我知道你是带着怎样的线索来到别列格勒的。兀尔德，琥珀屋，两个词语拼在一起，但我相信，给你情报的人也并不知道更多。
Igor: I know what led you here—Urd, Amber Room—the words appear together. But whoever gave you this intelligence likely knows little more than that.

伊戈尔：别列格勒不是个大城市，但缺少指引，就算把它翻个底朝天，你也很难找到琥珀屋所在。
Igor: Bereggrad is not a large city. But without guidance, you will never find the Amber Room, even if you turn it inside out.

伊戈尔：但琥珀屋的地点于我而言不是一个秘密。
Igor: Fortunately, its location is not a secret to me.

伊戈尔：我曾是这一切的参与者。
Igor: Because I was involved in it all.

维尔汀：你还知道多少？
Vertin: How much more do you know?

伊戈尔：不需要向我提问。我现在的身份，不受基金会保密条例的约束。我可以为你带路，让你找到答案。
Igor: No more questions. I am no longer bound by the Foundation's confidentiality rules. I can lead you directly to the answers.

伊戈尔留下一段用于思考交易价值的空白，趁此时间，他转向一直没有说话的骑兵军军长。
Igor gives them space to consider the deal, then turns to the cavalry commander, who has not spoken a word.

伊戈尔：我知道你更关心顿河的现状，伊万。上游的一些村庄遭到了洗劫，我的确要为此承担责任。
Igor: Ivan, I know you care deeply for the Don. I admit some responsibility for the looting of the upstream villages.

军长伊万：那真是你的手笔？
Commander Ivan: Then it was you?

伊戈尔：是格鲁托夫。
Igor: It was Krutov.

军长伊万：他？——是他做的，那又有什么不同？我知道他在圣保罗之后和你一起背叛了芝诺。
Commander Ivan: Krutov? Hah. He or you, what difference is there? He betrayed Zeno at your side in São Paulo. He follows your orders.

伊戈尔：在南极之后就不是了。新时代来临后，格鲁托夫不再听从我的指挥，我们之间出现了一些理念不合。
Igor: Not since Antarctica. With the new era, Krutov has taken his own path. We have some differences of opinion.

伊戈尔：我与重塑之手达成的，只是一项一次性的交易。但格鲁托夫的渴望已经超过了限度。
Igor: The Manus deal was a one-off, but Krutov wants more.

伊戈尔：他觉得自己还能向重塑之手索要更多，而不是一个对他来说没有用处的黑色小盒。
Igor: He believed our reward should be greater, that receiving only a small black cube was like pleasing a child with a toy.

红弩箭：我明白了，叛军中的叛军——你的军队正在走向自我毁灭。
Lilya: A traitor among traitors. Guess people do get what they deserve.

伊戈尔：讽刺而尖锐的评论，但我确实要为格鲁托夫的疯狂负责，我应该知道他的野心在脱离芝诺之后是不可控的。
Igor: Sharp. You're right. I should've known that without Zeno, his desire would grow beyond my control. I will take the blame for his madness.

红弩箭：就像该为圣保罗那些本不应该殉职的芝诺士兵负责一样。
Lilya: And for the Zeno soldiers you killed in São Paulo.

伊戈尔：我不会否认这一点，也必将为我所犯下的罪孽赎罪。
Igor: I will not deny it. And I will atone.

伊戈尔：但眼下，我也必须对格鲁托夫在顿河的所作所为负责。
Igor: But I must first stop what Krutov has done to the Don basin.

伊戈尔：我曾将他视作亲信，他在我手下成长、壮大，我却没能及时发觉、遏制他膨胀的野心。
Igor: I trusted him—trained him under my command—but failed to see his inflating ambition. I did not snuff it when I had the chance.

伊戈尔：他带走了一部分人员和装备，并且得到了重塑之手和其他军队的增员。
Igor: In the end, he built an army, from my soldiers and weapons, and from the Manus and other sources.

伊戈尔：进入这个时代后，他和我一直在互相追逐，他希望从我手上夺走“奇迹”，而我希望永绝后患。
Igor: In this era, our relationship has become rancorous. He hopes to snatch the "boon," and I hope to end this matter once and for all.

军长伊万：那么，他和他手上的匪军，就已经成为重塑之手的军队了。
Commander Ivan: Then he and his bandit forces now belong to Manus Vindictae.

伊戈尔：严格来说不完全是，他没有经历面具的试炼，只是作为盟友与重塑之手合作。我想这是他的傲慢使然。
Igor: He works with them as an ally, not a follower. He has not undergone the mask trial. Likely his arrogance is the reason.

军长伊万：呵，无论他是否加入了重塑之手，对我们来说都没有什么区别。
Commander Ivan: Whether he has joined the Manus or not, it matters little.

军长伊万：是叛军内部利益分配不均而导致了内乱以及顿河的悲剧。如果你还有一丝责任感，就应该快点解决问题。
Commander Ivan: These differences of opinion among you rebels are the cause of the Don's suffering. If an ounce of duty is left in you, end it. Quickly.

伊戈尔：我会在时机成熟时对格鲁托夫发动进攻，但我无法轻易取胜。
Igor: I will launch an attack on Krutov when the time is right, but the battle will be hard-fought.

将军坦率地承认军队正面临的困境。
The admiral frankly admits the trouble his army is facing.

伊戈尔：我相信你已经得到了他的部分情报，但或许，格鲁托夫目前的力量要比你推测的更强大。
Igor: I'm sure you already have some information, but Krutov is more powerful than you think.

伊戈尔：他手中拥有大量芝诺的武器，而且得到了重塑之手与顿河小军阀的增员，光凭我的军队很难彻底击溃他。
Igor: Zeno weapons, Manus troops, the backing of Don warlords—he has them all. My army alone cannot defeat him.

伊戈尔：所以，我希望与骑兵军合作，相互策应，对格鲁托夫的军队形成人数和战术上的优势。
Igor: That is why I ask your cooperation. With the Cavalry Corps, we will outnumber them. We will have the advantage.

军长伊万：……
Commander Ivan: ...

伊戈尔的话像一把插进泥土中的马刀，等待另一人拔出。
Igor's words are like a shashka sunk into the mud, waiting for the other to pull it free.

在开阔地的两端，数万人的军队仍维持着紧张的对峙。
Across the plain, tens of thousands of soldiers still face one another in tense silence.

军长伊万：你知道你在说什么吗，伊戈尔？
Commander Ivan: Are you sure you know what you're doing?

伊戈尔：我很清楚我在做什么，而且，我想我已经展示了最大限度的诚意。
Igor: I'm sure. And I hope I have proven my sincerity.

伊戈尔：合作的结果对我们都有利，顿河能重获和平，而我也能引导司辰找到与兀尔德有关的线索。
Igor: This serves all parties. You will bring peace to the Don, and the Timekeeper will learn what she seeks of Urd.

伊戈尔：如果我们能达成共识，这一切问题都会在一周之内解决。
Igor: If you agree, everything will be settled within a week. You have my word.

伊戈尔：时间不多，太阳快落山了。我希望能在此刻达成协定。
Igor: The sunlight is fading, so is our time. I hope the deal can be made now.

12TH-09 白夜 / White Night

芝诺骑兵军再度启程，在夜色的掩护下向别列格勒而去。
Under the cover of night, the Zeno Cavalry Corps resumes its march toward Bereggrad.

狮鹫军驻守在城外的主要道路旁，两支军队在深邃的黑夜中保持着相互的警惕。
The Gryphon Legion holds position by the main road to the city. Both armies remain on high alert.

两双沉重的马靴缓慢地在草地上踏着步。
Alone on the fields comes the slow crunch of two pairs of heavy boots.

伊戈尔：我猜说服你手下的人一定花了你不少时间。尤其是斯捷尔诺娃，她不是一个好对付的人。
Igor: It must have taken some convincing, especially with Sternova. She's rarely easy to sway.

军长伊万：我给他们的承诺是，顿河会迎来和平。但莎宾娜不这么认为，她说，“叛徒永远是叛徒，不可信任。”
Commander Ivan: I swore it would bring peace to the Don. Sabina objected, of course. "Once a traitor, always a traitor." Her exact words.

伊戈尔：她说得也没错。
Igor: She's right.

伊戈尔抬起手，在满是疤痕的小臂上，一圈刻工规整的符号在夜色中散发着微光。
Igor pulls back his sleeve. A circle of neatly inscribed symbols glows faintly on his scarred arm.

伊戈尔：芝诺过去为每一个神秘学家将领单独定制的抑制神秘术咒文，为了防止神秘术的不合规使用。
Igor: The arcane incantation customized by Zeno for every arcanist commander, preventing the misuse of arcane skills.

伊戈尔：……没想到还是用上了它。
Igor: Never thought I'd see it again.

军长伊万：我知道你的神秘术能让一支军队从战场上消失，我不能没有防范。
Commander Ivan: Your arcane skill can vanish an army in an instant. I must take precautions.

伊戈尔：谨慎是好习惯。让我意外的是，你还记得针对我的抑制咒文写法。
Igor: Ever cautious. Good. Though, I'm surprised you still remember how to write it.

军长伊万：因为我相信会有用上它的这一天，当然，这次和我想象中的情况很不一样。
Commander Ivan: I knew a day would come when I'd need it. I never thought it would be for this.

军长不想继续这个话题，他将目光从伊戈尔手臂上的符文移走。
The commander has no desire to pursue the topic. He looks away.

军长伊万：“鹰派”的老东西会要了我的命，或许索姆也会受牵连。你最好真的能像你保证的那样把问题解决。
Commander Ivan: Keep your promise. The Hawks are circling. They will devour me and Somme if given the chance.

伊戈尔：我知道基金会不希望骑兵军与我发生冲突，而且司辰一定给了为你担保的承诺。她的话不会被忽视的。
Igor: I know the Foundation wants no conflict between the cavalry and me, and the Timekeeper must have promised to vouch for you. Her words will not go unheard.

伊戈尔：如果不是司辰在别列格勒有特殊的任务，他们会命令你立刻撤离顿河，连两周的缓冲期也没有。
Igor: Were it not for the Timekeeper's mission in Bereggrad, they would have ordered you to leave the Don immediately. No two-week buffer.

军长伊万：你从哪里截取的情报？
Commander Ivan: How did you learn this?

伊戈尔：我不需要截取情报，只要在联合委员会里坐着的还是那一批人，我就能猜出他们的想法。
Igor: I do not need interception to know what the Joint Committee thinks, provided their membership remains unchanged.

伊戈尔：你是哥萨克，所以他们把你送到顿河，补充兵员。但是他们不愿意让你驻留家乡，也因为你是哥萨克。
Igor: You're a Cossack, so they sent you here to recruit new riders. For the same reason, they do not want you stationed here in your hometown.

军长伊万：……
Commander Ivan: ...

军长伊万：不要这样和我说话，伊戈尔。我们已经不是同一条船上的人。
Commander Ivan: Don't speak like you know me, Igor. You and I are no longer brothers.

军长伊万：不管是被降职，还是被关进监牢，我都会认命。我只是希望保证家乡的安全。
Commander Ivan: Demotion, imprisonment—no matter what they hang upon me, I will do what I must to defend my home.

伊戈尔的目光顺着河流，看向上游。别列格勒低沉的屋顶，在星夜的照耀下竟有如萤光闪烁。
Igor's eyes follow the river upstream to Bereggrad's low rooftops gleaming beneath the starry sky.

伊戈尔：这里是我们长大的地方，我和你都是在别列格勒与家人告别，然后跟着同级的新人加入芝诺。
Igor: We were born and raised on this land. We both bade farewell to our families that day, leaving Bereggrad and the steppe for the cold walls of Zeno.

伊戈尔：如果是在白天，比较晴朗的时候，站在这里差不多就能看见别列格勒教堂的尖顶。
Igor: On a fine day, you can make out the church spire from here.

伊戈尔：现在城市小了很多，如果是在99年，我们站着的地方，就可以看见别列格勒的城郊。
Igor: The city is not as large as it was in 99. Back then, we could easily see the suburbs too.

军长伊万：河流的拐点也不一样，很多东西都有所不同。这里终究是要被洪流冲走的，别寄予太多怀念。
Commander Ivan: Many things are different. All this will be washed away in time. Do not put too much weight on it.

伊戈尔：但这里的人还是一样的，草原的模样也没有改变，风里的青草和泥土味与世纪末的没有什么不同。
Igor: But the steppe remains unchanged, and so do her people. The smell of grass and dirt is no different than at the century's end.

军长伊万：我还是很难相信你说的话。格鲁托夫甚至不是顿河唯一的问题，解决他也不能挽救顿河。
Commander Ivan: I still cannot trust you. Krutov is but one stain on the Don. There are many more to be blotted.

军长伊万：“金色饥荒”最终会将这个时代的顿河变成一片荒芜之地，人们要么饿死，要么远走他乡。
Commander Ivan: The Golden Famine will strip the steppe bare. Her people will either starve or leave.

军长伊万：这一个冬天，顿河人都只能靠上一年的存粮过日子，而一些家境稍差的人，根本没有剩余的粮食。
Commander Ivan: Most will have to live off their food stores. Some poor folk have none at all.

伊戈尔：基金会认为“金色饥荒”是由什么导致的？
Igor: What does the Foundation believe to be the cause?

军长伊万：基金会根本匀不出人手来调查这里的异常，顿河不是战争的焦点，不值得他们关心。
Commander Ivan: They haven't investigated. The Foundation is stretched thin. The steppe is not worth their focus.

军长伊万：可笑的是，现在反而只能寄希望于一场“暴雨”，运气好的话，下一个时代一切又会恢复正常。
Commander Ivan: Hah. Our best hope may be the next "Storm." If it is kind, the Don will wake as she should in the next era.

伊戈尔没有接过伊万这显得有些残忍的玩笑。
Igor lets Ivan's almost cruel joke pass.

伊戈尔：季节倒错是一场仪式。
Igor: This heat is the result of an arcane ritual.

军长伊万：一场仪式？覆盖整个顿河下游地区的气候，这怎么可能？
Commander Ivan: A ritual? Bending the weather over the entire lower Don? How can it be done?

传令兵：军长——！
Messenger: Commander!

问题尚未得到解答，传令兵那急躁的呼喊声就插入了二位将领的谈话——这是作为传令兵的特权之一。
The messenger's shout cuts the conversation short.

他气喘吁吁地靠近，站稳后弯下了腰，双手撑着大腿大口喘着气。
He runs up to them and bends over, hands on his thighs as he attempts to catch his breath.

军长伊万：有什么要事？
Commander Ivan: Yes?

传令兵的呼吸频率很不正常，似乎不是出于劳累，而是出于面临极端险境的恐慌。
The messenger's breathing is unsettled, not from weariness, but from sheer fear.

他带着有些好奇的神色，看向一旁的芝诺叛军首领。
He turns to the Zeno rebel leader with a curious expression on his face.

传令兵：伊戈尔……
Messenger: Igor ...

他用谁也没有注意到的声音喃喃自语，逐渐找回了呼吸的节奏。
He mumbles something imperceptible to himself, gradually steadying his breathing.

站直身子的瞬间，他掏出一把手枪。
And the moment he straightens up, he whips out a pistol.

传令兵：为了……为了阿廖沙！
Messenger: This is for Alyosha!

伊戈尔：呵——
Igor: Hrgh!

伊戈尔向后踉跄着退了两步，屈膝半跪在了地上。
Igor staggers back two steps and drops to one knee.

行刺者颤抖的手让弹道偏离了预定方向，子弹没能忠诚地履行造成死亡的职责。
The messenger's trembling hand throws the shot off course, denying the bullet its deadly purpose.

短暂的震惊后，军长跨步上前擒住了传令兵的手腕。
After a brief moment of shock, the commander lunges forward to seize the messenger's wrist.

军长伊万：你在干什么，士兵？
Commander Ivan: Soldier! What do you think you're doing?

传令兵的脸被军长按在地上，他每咆哮出一个词，都能尝到故乡泥土的腥。
He forces the messenger's face to the ground. He tastes the dirt of his home with every word he roars.

传令兵：我的兄弟——阿廖沙——死了！
Messenger: Alyosha, my brother. You killed him!

传令兵：他的血染红了圣保罗！
Messenger: You killed him in São Paulo!

传令兵：凭什么？因为他不是神秘学家？因为他对你投靠重塑之手没有价值？！
Messenger: Why did you do it? Because he wasn't an arcanist? Because he wouldn't help you cozy up to the Manus scum?

没有人回答他的话，被枪击声惊扰的夜晚归于寂静。
No one answers. Besides his struggling, the night returns to silence.

军长伊万：按照芝诺的军事法，任何蓄意阻碍军队达成战略目标的士兵，将会以叛徒的身份被枪决。
Commander Ivan: Your commanders may execute any soldier who sabotages the army's strategic goals as a traitor. This is Zeno law.

伊戈尔：……
Igor: ...

伊戈尔缓缓站了起来，他握住了坠在胸前的军籍牌，上面留下了被子弹擦过的凹痕。
Igor rises slowly and grips the military identification tag hanging against his chest. A dent remains where the bullet struck.

遇刺的叛军领袖的神情沉如顿河静谧的夜晚，他上前一步，踢开了落在地上的作案工具。
He is as calm as the silent nights of the Don. He steps forward and kicks the fallen pistol away.

伊戈尔：让他走吧。
Igor: Let him go.

军长伊万：我的军队不用你来指挥。
Commander Ivan: This is my army. You have no say here.

不远处传来了战马嘶鸣，一支支火把如街灯亮起。
Not far off, a few warhorses neigh. Torches quickly light up the dark like streetlights.

传令兵：放开我！！
Messenger: Let go of me!

在钳制者分神的瞬间，传令兵挣脱了桎梏向坡下的行军队列中滚去。他很快溜进了行军队伍，火把也逐一灭了。
The messenger struggles free of Ivan's grasp, rolls down the slope, and vanishes into the marching column. One by one, the torches go out.

军长伊万：该死的——
Commander Ivan: Damn it!

军长对着夜幕开了几枪，但是什么都没有打中。
The commander fires several shots but hits nothing.

军长伊万：……
Commander Ivan: ...

托勒密：父亲——！
Ptolemy: Father!

忠诚的孩子怨恨自己迟来一步。
Igor's ever-loyal son rushes over.

托勒密：伊万诺维奇，你别想着包庇那个畜——
Ptolemy: Burakov, don't even think about protecting that bastard.

伊戈尔挥手制止了养子未出口的话，转向了军长。
Igor raises a hand and turns to the commander.

伊戈尔：这件事我可以忘记，你也可以。
Igor: I'm letting it go, and so are you.

伊戈尔：你的士兵们在保护他。骑兵军里有不少芝诺的老兵，追究此事容易动摇军心。
Igor: Many of your cavalry have long served Zeno. They will protect him. Pursuing this will only undermine morale.

伊戈尔：我告诉过你，在军队中没有什么比团结更重要。
Igor: Nothing matters more than unity in the army. I taught you this.

伊戈尔：你的骑兵军会是最团结的部队，他们理应像亲人一样关系紧密，相互托付后背。因为他们本来就是亲人。
Igor: Your cavalry must be united—brothers and sisters on the battlefield. This is what they are: a family.

在胸口几次深沉的起伏之后，伊万将手枪插回武装带。
After a few deep breaths, Ivan returns his pistol to its holster.

军长伊万：怨恨你的幸存者，射向你的子弹，背叛你的格鲁托夫，还有你即将陷入战火的“家”。
Commander Ivan: The hatred of those who once trusted you, a bullet to the chest, Krutov's betrayal, a "home" soon to be aflame ...

军长伊万：看看你的所作所为吧，伊戈尔。
Commander Ivan: Remember what you have wrought, Igor.

伊戈尔：我铭记于心。
Igor: I can never forget.

伊戈尔：……让我们回到没有说完的话，关于那场导致“金色饥荒”的仪式。
Igor: About the ritual that caused the Golden Famine.

伊戈尔：这是重塑之手的杰作，由多重节点术式维系。他们最终希望将仪式扩展到整个顿河与第聂伯河地区。
Igor: It was Manus Vindictae's doing, composed of multiple rites. Their goal is to expand west. First the Don, then the Dnieper.

伊戈尔：数百万平方公里的黑土地中将没有粮食生长，整个欧洲都会陷入饥饿。
Igor: Soon, millions of square kilometers of land will grow no crops. All of Europe will face hunger.

军长伊万：什么样的施术者能用神秘术来影响百万平方公里的气候？
Commander Ivan: What sort of ritualist has the power to change the weather over such an area?

伊戈尔：不要忘了，伊万，我们的敌人是复生的“神明”。
Igor: Remember, Ivan, our enemy is a resurrected "deity."

在孩子的搀扶下，叛军领袖走下山坡。
With Ptolemy's support, Igor makes his way down the slope.

仪式术士：现在，保持呼吸。
Ritualist: Keep breathing.

一只香炉被术士高举过头顶，它的孔隙中涌出色彩迷离的烟雾。
The ritualist lifts a censer above her head. Colorful fumes spill from its veins.

俘虏：……
Captive: ...

烟雾如同一只气态的多足爬行生物一般，在被捆缚的俘虏周身缓缓爬行。
They creep around the bound captive like a gaseous myriapod.

俘虏：呵、呵呃——
Captive: Urrghh ...

俘虏：啊啊——
Captive: Ahh—

格鲁托夫：……
Krutov: ...

面对这场糟糕的表演，格鲁托夫不屑地挑起眉梢。
Krutov raises an eyebrow of contempt at the horrifying display.

格鲁托夫：死了？
Krutov: Is he dead?

术士伸手于香炉上方一抚，纷乱的烟雾立时收束。
The ritualist gives the censer a wave. The fumes rush back inside in an instant.

仪式术士：我还是低估了人类精神的孱弱程度，下次应该能把握到更好的分寸。
Ritualist: I overestimated the human's mental capacity. Next time, I won't make the same mistake.

格鲁托夫：为什么不把他们带到“冰山”上去研究？还是说你想的就是独自占有研究的成果？
Krutov: Why not bring them to the Iceberg? Or do you aim to monopolize the fruits of the experiment?

仪式术士：所有的功业都属于祂。
Ritualist: Every glorious achievement is Hers.

术士含糊其词地回应着。格鲁托夫挥挥手，让一名士兵将尸体拖走。
The ritualist's answer is vague. Krutov waves a hand, signaling a soldier to drag the body away.

格鲁托夫：我没有时间照顾你的实验了，两个小时之后，我的军队就要前往别列格勒。
Krutov: I have no time for your little experiments. My army departs for Bereggrad in two hours.

仪式术士：别列格勒？
Ritualist: Bereggrad?

她显然没有预料到这个决定。
The news clearly catches her off guard.

仪式术士：我们终会夺下那座城市，将它的财富与生命洗劫一空，可是……现在？“冰山”的命令可不是攻取城市。
Ritualist: We will eventually conquer the city—plunder it of its wealth and vitality. But departing now, you say? There were no such orders from the Iceberg.

仪式术士：我们会用饥饿来消灭敌人。
Ritualist: Starvation will be our enemy's end.

格鲁托夫：给了我军队，我就有权力调动他们。伊戈尔和伊万见过面了，他们正在向别列格勒进军，我必须拦住他们。
Krutov: She entrusted me an army and the power to deploy them. Now that Igor and Ivan have met, they are sure to head to Bereggrad. I must stop them.

一阵发动机的轰鸣声传来——负责运载重型武器的车队已经启动。
The low growl of engines rolls in. The transport unit responsible for heavy weapons is departing.

格鲁托夫：我的军队已经准备好发动一次决战，这是我消灭伊戈尔的最好机会。
Krutov: My army is ready. This is my chance to eliminate Igor for good.

格鲁托夫：如果你们不给我那一份奇迹，我就会自己去夺过来。
Krutov: If you won't give me the "boon," I will take it myself.

仪式术士：一个节点失守，其他节点的术式范围也会受到影响。
Ritualist: The loss of one rite will affect the efficacy of many others.

仪式术士：如果冬天降临，我们接下来在东线的攻势会受到严重影响，而整个针对欧洲的计划都会受到拖延。
Ritualist: If the weather cools and winter returns, our attack on the Eastern Front will be jeopardized. Our entire project will be delayed.

仪式术士：你拥有的特权不是无限的，将军。迟早有一天，你和你的人也要接受祂的试炼。
Ritualist: Your privilege has its limits, General. You and your followers will accept the trial. It is only a matter of time.

格鲁托夫：你们没有要求伊戈尔和他的人戴上面具，为什么现在又提出这种要求。
Krutov: Watch your tone, Ritualist. You never asked Igor and his men to wear the mask. You have no right to ask us.

一把手枪顶上术士的前额，但后者不为所动，反倒咧嘴而笑。
He presses his gun against the ritualist's forehead. But she doesn't flinch. She grins.

格鲁托夫：伊戈尔只是一个孱弱而优柔寡断的中间派，不敢直面自己的渴望。我比他要强得多。
Krutov: Igor is a weak, indecisive coward who doesn't dare face his true desires. I am greater than he will ever be.

仪式术士：你认为我会害怕死亡吗？祂最终会令所有神秘学家的灵魂复苏，一切功过是非都将得以澄清。
Ritualist: Do you think a gun to the head will scare me? Death is but a return to Her embrace.

仪式术士：你大可送我去见祂，我将念着祂的美名而死。
Ritualist: She will resurrect all arcanists—clarify our deeds. I will die with Her name on my lips.

格鲁托夫放下枪。
Krutov lowers his gun.

格鲁托夫：恶心的怪物。
Krutov: Monsters.

卡戎：……
Charon: ...

他看着一名格鲁托夫的士兵将一具新的人类尸体拖至营地外侧。
He looks on as one of Krutov's soldiers drags a fresh corpse from the camp.

对于已死之人来说，此刻的感受更加接近于“枯萎”。
For the man who is already dead, this moment feels closer to withering.

卡戎：还会有多少人因此而死？
Charon: How many more will die for this?

重塑士兵：……
Manus Soldier: ...

士兵乜斜一眼，没有回话，低着头离开了。卡戎感受到一种更强的压迫感正在靠近。
The soldier glances at him. Without a word, he lowers his head and walks away. Charon feels a stronger pressure closing in on him.

格鲁托夫：这是你自己选的，卡戎，他们的死都会算在你头上。
Krutov: They die because of you, Charon. The decision was yours.

亡者回过头。
Charon turns back.

卡戎：如果我的顺从能换来你对生命的敬重，我不会拒绝。
Charon: If joining you will teach you to respect life, then, I will do so.

卡戎：可是……我不理解我的选择能带来多少改变，这些人仍然会因为其他的理由死在你的手上。
Charon: But it is unclear what difference my choice will make. These people will still die by your hand, only for another cause.

格鲁托夫：我没有重塑之手那么疯狂，我只是喜欢效率。
Krutov: I am not so deranged as the Manus. I simply value efficiency.

卡戎：既然你厌恶重塑之手的行径，也并不属于戴上面具的那些人，那为什么要为他们服务？
Charon: If you are not one of them, if you detest their behavior, why do you work for them?

格鲁托夫：是他们在为我服务，因为这群神秘学家疯子需要我，不然他们根本找不到懂得军事战略的人。
Krutov: They work for me. These lunatics know nothing of military tactics.

格鲁托夫：他们所谓的将领，只会愚蠢地让所有能用的士兵往一个方向进攻。
Krutov: They simply point in a direction and let their entire force loose.

格鲁托夫顿了顿。
Krutov pauses.

格鲁托夫：你觉得我和他们有什么相似点？
Krutov: What similarity could I possibly have with them?

卡戎：战争，破坏和无止尽的死亡。
Charon: You both start wars, bringing destruction and bloodshed wherever you walk.

格鲁托夫：目的是不同的。
Krutov: *scoff* Our purposes are different.

卡戎：对我来说没有什么不同。
Charon: It doesn't seem so different to me.

格鲁托夫：可惜，如果你能留在我身边，会是一个好的聊天对象。
Krutov: A pity you have to go. It's rare I meet someone worth more than a few words of conversation.

亡者未能及时领悟到格鲁托夫话中的暗示。他看见一名士兵牵着一匹黑马向自己走来。
Charon fails to grasp the implication behind Krutov's words. He only sees a soldier approaching with a black horse.

卡戎：安德烈森？
Charon: Andreas?

安德烈森：咴……
Andreas: Neigh ...

卡戎：……？
Charon: ...?

在他没察觉到的时候，已经有两名士兵来到身后，此刻正用粗硬的草绳捆缚他的双手。
Before he even realizes it, he is bound with rope by the two soldiers behind him.

卡戎：这是在做什么？你们已经用术阵限制了我的行动。
Charon: Why do you bind me? The ritualist has already limited my movement.

格鲁托夫：我对你有别的安排。
Krutov: I have other plans for you.

12TH-10 时代遗物 / Legacy of the Era

在军队的马蹄踏入别列格勒时，城市用死一样的寂静迎接骑兵军的到来。它看起来就像是一座空城。
Bereggrad receives the thundering hooves of the cavalry in dead silence. It's as if the city has been deserted.

但士兵们都能感受到那种目光——惊恐、警惕而怨恨的——从每一扇锈腐的门后，从修道院破碎的彩窗后面，打在疲惫的战马、落灰的制服和黑洞洞的枪管上。
Yet the soldiers sense the stares—frightened, alert, resentful—peering through every rusted doorway, every shattered stained-glass window. They settle on the weary warhorses, on dust-stained uniforms, and on the black barrels of their guns.

斯捷尔诺娃：为什么别列格勒的人对骑兵军会是这个态度？
Sternova: What are they so scared of? The cavalry's here to protect them.

军长伊万：别列格勒目前没有被任何一方完全控制，但混乱从来没有停止：送回家乡的讣告、飞涨的物价、走上劫掠道路的年轻人。这片草原没有一块土地是完好的，人也是。
Commander Ivan: After all the chaos—letters from the front, soaring prices, bandits, Bereggrad is worn thin, even afraid of its own shadow.

斯捷尔诺娃：这倒让我想起……在红柳树村的时候也是差不多的状况。
Sternova: *sigh* Just like the people of Tamarovka.

军长抬头看着所有紧闭的门窗，又转向在巷道中闪躲的影子。
The commander looks up at the shuttered windows around him, then turns to the shadows hiding in the alleys.

伊戈尔：你没有在军队中严格保密骑兵军接到的命令？
Igor: You didn't keep the cavalry's orders confidential?

伊戈尔走在军长身旁，他时不时用手摁住肋部——那里还留着昨夜刺杀事件的枪伤。
Igor walks beside him. From time to time, he presses against his ribs, where the sting of the gunshot still echoes.

军长伊万：这种事情很难不传出去。
Commander Ivan: Word always gets out.

伊戈尔：那别列格勒的市民应该也知道骑兵军马上就会离开顿河。他们对局面失去了信心，因为没有人会保护他们。
Igor: Then the citizens must know that you will soon withdraw from the Don. With no one left to protect them, they have lost all faith.

伊戈尔：但他们不理解为什么骑兵军在离开之前还要来别列格勒，只能往最坏的方向去推测。
Igor: They do not know why the cavalry comes. I'm certain their minds are filled with the worst possibilities.

伊戈尔：他们会猜测，骑兵军是不是要在走之前将别列格勒洗劫一空。毕竟自从内乱开始以来，劫掠就是草原的常态。
Igor: They think you will plunder the city, no doubt. That's most of what they have faced since this began.

军长伊万：我会去找几个有声望的人，比如费奥多尔·彼得罗维奇，一位市民代表。我会让他相信骑兵军没有恶意。
Commander Ivan: I see. I'll find a man of standing. Fyodor Petrovich, perhaps. And convince him we bear no ill.

伊戈尔：人们不会理解自己看不到的东西，你没办法把基金会和芝诺的事情解释给他们听。
Igor: People don't understand what they cannot see with their own eyes, and you cannot tell them about the Foundation or Zeno.

阴影处潜伏着一些手持武器的市民，这一切无法躲过军人敏锐的目光。
In the darkness, several citizens lurk with weapons in their hands. Not one of them escapes Igor's eyes.

伊戈尔：看来他们已经组织起了民兵，做好了最坏的打算。我们能做的只有在城里保持安静，不要再火上浇油。
Igor: They have already formed a militia, preparing for the worst. All we can do is remain discreet and avoid adding fuel to the fire.

军长伊万：……我只希望这一切快点结束。解决格鲁托夫，最好逮捕或杀死他本人，然后毁坏正在控制顿河天气的术阵。
Commander Ivan: We must end this quickly. Deal with Krutov. Captured or killed, it doesn't matter. Destroy their ritual, and return the steppe to what she once was.

伊戈尔：以及让司辰完成基金会交给她的任务。
Igor: And aid the Timekeeper in her mission.

军长伊万：没错，所有这一切——一星期之内完成，你答应过我。也希望你能信守承诺。
Commander Ivan: One week, Igor. That was your word. Do not forget it.

伊戈尔：嗯，我建议将解决术阵的问题交给红弩箭的飞行中队。
Igor: I suggest we entrust the ritual issue to Lilya's flight unit.

伊戈尔：她们发动奇袭的效果比骑兵更好，可以在重塑之手反应过来之前破坏仪式。
Igor: They have the element of surprise. An aerial strike will give the Manus little time to react.

军长伊万：我也是这么计划的，你提供的地点我已经转交给红弩箭中尉，她正在制订空袭计划。
Commander Ivan: Already done. The coordinates you gave are with Lieutenant Lilya. She's working on an air raid plan as we speak.

伊戈尔：别列格勒就暂时交给你了。我该去见司辰了，她正在修道院等我。
Igor: I will leave Bereggrad to you. The Timekeeper waits for me at the church.

军长伊万：你们要调查的线索，在修道院里？
Commander Ivan: What she seeks is in a church?

红弩箭的扫帚停在一座修道院前。
Lilya brings her broom to a stop outside a church.

在别列格勒的无数修道院中，这实在是不起眼的一座，不大也不小，并不特殊的圆顶，只是地势稍稍高了一些，可以远远望见深秋金色的原野。
This church is unremarkable among the many others in Bereggrad—medium-sized and without a distinctive dome. Only its position sets it apart. It stands on higher ground, giving it a clear overlook of the golden plains.

红弩箭：破修道院，连修士都跑了。
Lilya: What kind of church is this? Place is abandoned.

红弩箭：头儿，我不知道你想来这儿找什么——但你得万事小心，特别是……
Lilya: Captain, I don't know what you're looking for here, but you got to take care of yourself, especially ...

她斜睨了一眼，伊戈尔正从远处向修道院走来。
As she glances over, she spots Igor approaching from afar.

维尔汀：我会的，红弩箭，也祝你的飞行一切顺利。
Vertin: I will, Lilya. Have a good flight.

红弩箭：对我来说，没有不顺利的飞行。
Lilya: Never had a bad one.

红弩箭：虽然我有时候也希望自己能失手砸中副会长办公室。
Lilya: Though smashing into the vice president's office would make it a little better than the rest.

这是红弩箭式的告别，但飞行员并没有离开，她意有所指地看向另一边的伊戈尔。
It's a farewell in Lilya's own style. But she doesn't leave. Instead, she fixes her gaze on Igor.

伊戈尔：红弩箭中尉，我与司辰小队间没有利益冲突。交给你的术阵节点坐标也是真实的，你大可放心。
Igor: Lieutenant Lilya, my interests do not conflict with the Timekeeper's. The coordinates I provided are correct. We're on the same side.

红弩箭：我并不担心这个，如果你在这件事上说谎，那你多半也走不出别列格勒了。
Lilya: I am not worried. If you dare to lie about this, you're not leaving the city alive.

红弩箭朝前走了两步，直直站在叛军将领的正前方。
Lilya steps forward, directly squaring up with the rebel leader.

红弩箭：我想说的是，不管你现在做了什么，将来还会做什么，我都不会忘记你在圣保罗做的事。
Lilya: But no matter what you do, now or in the future, I'll never forget what you did in São Paulo.

红弩箭：我会亲手把你押送到审判席上，让你面对每一条罪行。我一定会活到战争结束，我也希望你能活到那一天。
Lilya: I'll live through this war, and I hope you do too, so I can walk you to the judgment seat myself and see you punished for everything you've done.

飞行女巫盯住对方的双眼，像鹰爪死死地抓住猎物。
She meets his eyes head-on, like an eagle locking onto its prey.

红弩箭：如果法庭不会判你死刑，那我会。
Lilya: And if the court doesn't sentence you to death, I will.

伊戈尔看着红弩箭的眼睛，明白她的话并非威胁，只是宣告。
Meeting Lilya's eyes, Igor understands that this isn't a threat but a declaration.

他没有迎击，也没有躲避。
He doesn't confront her, but he doesn't avoid her gaze either.

伊戈尔：中尉，我记得我做过的每一件事，我记得我牺牲过的每一个人，我比任何一位法官都记得更清楚，所以——
Igor: Lieutenant, I know what I've done. I see the faces of those I sacrificed more clearly than anyone.

他的脸上浮现出一种被压缩为宁静的苦闷神情。
A suffocating stillness settles across his face.

伊戈尔：我很期待那一天。
Igor: I look forward to my judgment day.

红弩箭：我也一样。
Lilya: So do I.

飞行女巫骑上扫帚，离开了地面。伊戈尔目送她升入高空，与中队的其他飞行员会合。
Lilya mounts her broom and takes off. Igor watches as she rises into the sky and rejoins her squad.

将军低下头。
He lowers his head.

伊戈尔：司辰，走吧，你要找的东西就在修道院之下。
Igor: Let's go, Timekeeper. What you search for is underneath the church.

维尔汀：修道院的……下面？
Vertin: Underneath?

伊戈尔：历史变迁会让地标建筑的位置发生改变，琥珀屋过去甚至有过深埋于农业市场地下的时期。
Igor: As eras change, so do landmarks. There was a time the Amber Room was buried beneath a market, even.

伊戈尔：现在这个修道院的地窖很深，刚好与琥珀屋的外围空间相隔不远。我已经让托勒密带人开凿了一条通向目的地的简易隧道。
Igor: The church's cellar is deep, near the periphery of the Amber Room. Ptolemy led the digging of a simple tunnel between them.

在即将出发的时刻，身后还是响起了第一助手焦虑不安的迟疑。
Just as they are about to set off, Sonetto lets out her anxious hesitation.

十四行诗：司辰……您真的要一个人下去吗？
Sonetto: Timekeeper, are you sure you want to go down there alone?

维尔汀：不用担心，十四行诗，只有我和伊戈尔能进入琥珀屋，这是之前说好的。
Vertin: It's alright, Sonetto. Only Igor and I are allowed in the Amber Room. That was the deal.

维尔汀：你和玛尔纱在地面等我出来就好。
Vertin: You and Marsha can just wait for me here.

向下的道路并不漫长，只是黑暗与厚重沉闷的泥土吞食了时间感。
The road down is not long, but the darkness of the suffocating earth devours any sense of time.

伊戈尔：……
Igor: ...

循着爆破后残留的火药味，他们向黑暗尽头的一处光斑前进。
Guided by the lingering scent of gunpowder from Ptolemy's excavation, they move toward a faint point of light in the distance.

维尔汀：前面的光亮是什么？
Vertin: What's that light ahead?

伊戈尔：是我的人之前在内部建立的照明系统。
Igor: The lighting system my men built before.

维尔汀：之前？挖通隧道的时候吗？
Vertin: Before? When they dug the tunnel?

伊戈尔：是比那更早的事了。
Igor: Earlier than that.

那一束光线越来越张扬，些许复杂的结构逐渐显现，直到探索者越过那一道门。
The light grows brighter, revealing an unexpectedly complex structure as they pass through the entryway.

维尔汀：——！
Vertin: ...!!

面前的大厅像是一个巨大的地铁站，又像是上演戏剧的辉煌舞台。
It appears to be a vast subway station or some grand theatrical stage.

无论是否有人曾在这里低吟颂歌，这儿都显然不是属于这个时代的宏伟工程。
Whether or not an ode has ever been sung here, this is clearly not something that could have been built in this era.

维尔汀：这是一座冷战时期风格的地铁站，为什么会出现在这里？
Vertin: A metro station. Looks like Cold War period. What's it doing here?

伊戈尔：是琥珀屋的作用。它对“暴雨”免疫的能力稍微向四周蔓延，就在历史的不断回溯中留下了这一截地铁站。
Igor: It's because of the Amber Room. The range of its "Storm" immunity expanded, covering this station.

维尔汀：免疫“暴雨”能力的蔓延……这里还不是琥珀屋的核心？
Vertin: The immunity range expanded. So this isn't the center of the Amber Room?

伊戈尔：当然不是，在基金会与芝诺联手在琥珀屋建立实验室的时候，它的上方就已经存在着一座真正的、为市民提供服务的地铁站。
Igor: Of course not. There was a metro station here when the Foundation and Zeno built the laboratory.

维尔汀：基金会与芝诺联手建造的实验室？
Vertin: A laboratory built in collaboration between the Foundation and Zeno?

伊戈尔：……抵达琥珀屋的入口还有些距离，让我们在路上谈谈吧，司辰。我的确有很多要解释的事。
Igor: There is still some distance to the Amber Room. Let's talk on the way. Much remains to explain.

进入地铁站之后，年迈的芝诺背叛者似乎终于卸下了所有言辞中的遮掩。
Now they've entered the subway station. The aged Zeno traitor finally seems to shed the veiled wording in his speech.

伊戈尔：基金会和芝诺联手开展过很多项目，涉及不同的保密等级，当然，这些保密规定已经不再对我有约束力。
Igor: The Foundation and Zeno have worked on many projects together of many security levels. I am now free to talk of them.

伊戈尔：在第二次“暴雨”之后，几个芝诺高级将领与基金会委员找到我，希望我为一项涉及“暴雨”的研究提供军事援助。
Igor: After the second "Storm," several Zeno generals and Committee members requested my military support for a research project on the "Storm."

伊戈尔：最初，我以为这只是一个类似于“换生灵”的研究项目，虽然见不得光，但终究算不上会带来太大危害。
Igor: At first, I thought it was similar to the Changeling project. Shady, perhaps, but not too harmful.

维尔汀：“换生灵”项目还是给绿湖营地的游客，以及周边的居民带来了伤害。
Vertin: That project still caused harm to tourists at the Green Lake Campsite and the surrounding residents.

伊戈尔：和琥珀屋比起来，这些又很难称得上是大问题。
Igor: This is nothing compared to what the Amber Room did.

伊戈尔：我答应参与之后，得到进驻别列格勒近郊，在地面上建立军事警戒区，保护地下设施不受侵入的命令。
Igor: After I joined the project, my orders were to station on the outskirts of Bereggrad and build a military zone to protect the underground site.

伊戈尔：同时基金会要求我排查那些在“暴雨”后各时代中为芝诺服役，却不存在于1999年芝诺总部记录中的士兵。
Igor: At the same time, the Foundation asked for a thorough review of all soldiers who served Zeno after the first "Storm" but did not appear in any 1999 records at headquarters.

维尔汀：他们是没有登记的人吗？
Vertin: Were they not registered?

伊戈尔：不。这些士兵在芝诺各分部都保有完整可靠的档案，可是将分部档案与1999年的总部记录对比后，就会发现异常。
Igor: No. Their records were flawless in each branch across the world. But compared to headquarters' records from 1999, anomalies were found.

伊戈尔：一样的军衔、相似的履历，但照片却和总部保存的图像资料完全不同，如同被另一个人顶替了身份。
Igor: Some had similar resumes and ranks but different photos from those filed in headquarters, as if their identities were stolen or replaced.

伊戈尔：而另一边，芝诺又偶尔会在不同时代中发现一些相貌与总部档案中的完全一致，却在当下与芝诺毫无瓜葛的人。
Igor: Zeno also encountered people whose faces matched the archive but whose names were different, with no connection to Zeno at all.

伊戈尔：这些事，听起来会让你感到熟悉吗，司辰？
Igor: Sound familiar, Timekeeper?

维尔汀：是的，圣保罗的邓肯先生。他的外貌与曾经消失在“暴雨”中的一位故人十分相似。
Vertin: Yes, Mr. Duncan in São Paulo. His appearance matched an acquaintance of mine, a man I saw dissolve in the "Storm."

伊戈尔：我替琥珀屋项目找到这些异常的人，带到琥珀屋，却不知道在地下发生了什么。
Igor: I was tasked with locating these abnormalities and bringing them to the Amber Room. For what purpose, I did not know.

伊戈尔：管理出入的士兵曾私下告诉我，那些被送出去的人，和他们被送进来时的神色完全不同，像是被改变了心智。
Igor: The guard there confided to me that people looked different after leaving, as if no longer themselves.

维尔汀：你想过弄清楚地下发生的事吗？
Vertin: Did you ever consider finding out what was going on?

伊戈尔：没有。那时我对我们的信念坚如磐石，我深信基金会许诺的和平愿景，更以恪守军人的天职——服从为荣耀。
Igor: No. Back then, my faith was firm. I wholeheartedly believed in the Foundation's vision of peace and honored my duty. That is to say, I followed orders.

伊戈尔：但这就是令我后悔的事……在第六次“暴雨”之后，他们带来了兀尔德。
Igor: That led to my deepest regret. After the sixth "Storm," they brought in Urd.

维尔汀：——？
Vertin: ...?

维尔汀：在那么早之前，基金会就已经找到兀尔德了吗？
Vertin: The Foundation found Urd that long ago?

伊戈尔：确切来说，是主导琥珀屋项目的人找到了兀尔德。但在鸽子屋的要求下，他们对项目外的人封锁了信息。
Igor: Specifically, those leading the Amber Room Project did. By order of the Pax House, all information on the project was sealed.

伊戈尔：之后的两场“暴雨”来得太突然，而兀尔德进入琥珀屋后，她的状态也出现了异常。
Igor: The two subsequent "Storms" came suddenly. During that time, something happened to Urd, something different.

伊戈尔：她在“暴雨”持续期间设法脱离了琥珀屋的控制，但碍于保密指令，当时我们并没有足够的人手去寻找她。
Igor: During one "Storm," she escaped, but the secrecy of the project left us without manpower to find her.

伊戈尔：这件事间接导致了她在后续“暴雨”中的多次失踪。
Igor: This is what led to her multiple disappearances in the following "Storms."

维尔汀：……她本来可以留在安全区域内的，是吗？
Vertin: She could've stayed in the safe zone, couldn't she?

伊戈尔：对。在我的视角看来，之后基金会对兀尔德的搜寻都是在掩饰自己的失误。
Igor: Indeed. From my view, the Foundation only searched for her to cover for their mistakes.

伊戈尔：我还记得最后一次见到兀尔德时的情境，和顿河的草原一样，那里也是一片危险而荒芜的旷野。
Igor: I remember well the last time I saw Urd. It was on a vast land, dangerous, barren, much like the Don steppe.

维尔汀：在南极？
Vertin: In Antarctica?

伊戈尔：不，在南极的是德洛丝医生，而我说的是兀尔德。
Igor: That was Doctor Dores. I talk of Urd.

伊戈尔：在圣保罗见到她的时候，虽然样貌没有变化，而且仍然有她特有的平静的勇气……
Igor: When I saw her in São Paulo, I knew her at once. Both by her appearance and by her unique calm bravery.

伊戈尔：但德洛丝医生终究和1999年的兀尔德判若两人。德洛丝医生茫然地想要找回自己的身份，早已忘记自己是谁。
Igor: But Doctor Dores was not the woman I knew in 1999. She was lost. A soul trying to reclaim memory and identity.

维尔汀：……也就是说，你最后一次见到你口中的兀尔德，是在第一次“暴雨”来临之前。
Vertin: In other words, the last time you saw the Urd you knew was before the first "Storm."

伊戈尔：1999年，我，还有很多人，都见证了第一次“暴雨”的降临。这是我想说的第二件往事。
Igor: Correct. In 1999, the year the first "Storm" rose rain from the earth. This is the second event I want to tell you about.

伊戈尔：那时候我们的军队在哈萨克斯坦严阵以待，准备一场史无前例的战役……
Igor: At that time, our army stood ready in Kazakhstan for a war none had ever seen before.

伊戈尔：兀尔德女士，军队全员已经做好战斗准备了。
Igor: Ms. Urd, the army is combat ready.

兀尔德：麻烦您了，将军。仪式举行的瞬间，会是他们最脆弱的时候，我需要在那个瞬间靠近仪式中心。
Urd: Thank you for letting me know, Admiral. At the moment they start the ritual, they'll be their most vulnerable. I need to be close to its center at that time.

伊戈尔：好。我相信您知道自己在做什么。
Igor: Understood. You know what you're doing. I believe in you.

伊戈尔：重塑之手的防御很薄弱，行动会很顺利，请您不用担心，兀尔德女士。
Igor: Their defenses are weak. There's no need to worry, Ms. Urd. Everything will go smoothly.

兀尔德：我不为自己的命运担忧，不过，我很担心她。
Urd: I'm not worried about myself. I'm worried about her.

伊戈尔：她……您的孩子，对吗？
Igor: You mean your daughter?

兀尔德：是的，她还太小，还不能真正理解身边正在发生的事。
Urd: Yes. She's still too young to understand all this.

伊戈尔：第一防线学校会照看好她的。
Igor: The SPDM will take good care of her.

兀尔德：基金会给了我一样的承诺……我想也只能如此了。
Urd: The Foundation made the same promise. I suppose it's the only way.

维尔汀：……1999年12月31日，重塑之手举行了第一次时空仪式。
Vertin: Manus Vindictae held its first space-time ritual on December 31st, 1999.

伊戈尔：时空仪式一旦成功，就能让重塑之手回到属于神秘学家的“空白时代”。南极是他们的第二次尝试。
Igor: If they had succeeded, that ritual would have brought time back to the Blank Era. Antarctica was their second attempt.

伊戈尔：两次时空仪式的结局都是两败俱伤，仪式发挥了效用，但没有彻底完成。“洪水”化作“暴雨”顷刻而至。
Igor: The results were much the same. The "Flood" summoned by the ritual was incomplete and turned into the first "Storm."

足音回响在这座封存已久的地铁站里，正一步步靠近秘密的核心。
Footsteps echo through the long-sealed subway station, drawing them ever closer to the heart of the secret.

伊戈尔：我向兀尔德保证行动会顺利，但这是谎言。芝诺和基金会都不清楚重塑之手布设的防御术阵有多么强大。
Igor: I promised Urd the operation would go smoothly, but I lied. Neither Zeno nor the Foundation had any idea how powerful the Manus's defensive ritual was.

伊戈尔：情况过于危急，所有战斗人员都只得到了一条命令——前进，不计伤亡。
Igor: The situation was desperate. We had only one order: advance, regardless of the casualties.

伊戈尔：战役的细节被“暴雨”带走，只剩沉重的情绪还留在我的回忆中，那是下令让无数士兵走向死亡的悲痛。
Igor: When the "Storm" rose, it swallowed the details of the war. Yet the weight of it haunts me still—the grief of sending my soldiers to die.

伊戈尔：无数性命像酒杯口的小虫子一样，轻易地滑向了深渊，再也没有回来。
Igor: Like the flame of a candle, they were extinguished in an instant.

伊戈尔：如果不是被第一场“暴雨”或多或少带走了记忆，我离开芝诺与基金会的时间只会更早。
Igor: If it weren't for the "Storm" blurring my memories, I would've left Zeno and the Foundation far sooner.

地铁站走到了尽头，前面似乎是一个更广阔的地带，白色的光线和风灌了进来。
The subway station ends, and ahead of them lies a broader space, where white light and air pour in.

维尔汀：那之后又是什么导致了你背叛芝诺和基金会？
Vertin: Then, what ultimately led to your betrayal?

将军停下了脚步，看向大厅角落不起眼的门。
Igor halts and turns toward an obscure door at the corner of the hall.

伊戈尔：——我们到了。
Igor: We've arrived.

它和墙壁是一样光滑的大理石，需要仔细看才能辨认出轮廓。但从视线停在门上的那一刻起，所有人都感觉得到其神秘。
It's carved from the same smooth marble as the surrounding wall, its outline only perceptible on close inspection. Unobtrusive, unremarkable even, but ever so mysterious.

伊戈尔：……正是琥珀屋项目让我想起了鸽子屋治下一切的傲慢。
Igor: It was the Amber Room Project. It showed me the Pax House's arrogance.

伊戈尔：我不清楚，在对生命的漠视方面，基金会和重塑之手究竟谁更加令人绝望。
Igor: By now, I don't know which shows less respect for life, the Foundation or Manus Vindictae.

伊戈尔：我曾以为，我们的战斗和牺牲都建立在充足的理由与信念上，都是为了一个和平而美好的未来。
Igor: I once thought that we fought and sacrificed for a firm conviction, to bring a bright and peaceful future.

伊戈尔：但在见过这一切之后，我很难再欺骗自己。我知道鸽子屋在缔造属于人类与神秘学家共同的和平，但我已不再相信他们的路径。
Igor: But I can fool myself no longer. The Pax House may aim to build a peaceful future for both humans and arcanists, but their means are no longer justifiable.

伊戈尔：而且……阿尔卡纳的存在让我意识到，这是一场属于神明的战争，作为凡人，我不知道如何取胜。
Igor: And, with Arcana as She is, this is a war for gods. How can we stand—let alone claim victory—as mere mortals?

伊戈尔：我希望，也有一位神明能站在自己这边，司辰。
Igor: How I wish to have a god on my side, Timekeeper.

他的态度几近恳求。
There is an almost pleading note in his voice.

伊戈尔：或许是实验的全部资料，或许只是兀尔德女士留给你的只言片语。我不知道这里面具体有什么，但我知道这是她希望留给你的东西。
Igor: What lies in the Amber Room, I cannot fully say. Data fragments, Ms. Urd's words, whatever it is, she wants you to have it.

伊戈尔：因“命运”的力量，它们得以在“暴雨”中长存，只是为了等待你的到来。我想，你应该接受它。
Igor: Destiny has seen it survive several "Storms," waiting for this hour, for you.

伊戈尔：穿过这扇门。这是只有你与兀尔德女士能打开的门。
Igor: This is a door only you and Ms. Urd may open. Go. Walk through it.

维尔汀：……我不能确定你说的一切是否属实，不过，谢谢你能带我到这里，伊戈尔。
Vertin: I'm still not sure if you're telling the truth, but thank you for bringing me here, Igor.

12TH-11 赫克托耳宣言 / The Defender's Oath

实验人员：兀尔德女士，你感觉如何？
Laboratory Technician: How are you feeling, Ms. Urd?

兀尔德？：和之前的每一次一样，这张椅子我已经坐上去过很多次了。另外，你们一定要用我的笔名来称呼我吗？
Urd?: Just as I have the many other times I've sat on this chair. And must you insist on calling me by my pen name?

实验人员：那才是属于你的名字。你想要找回你自己，那首先就要接受它。
Laboratory Technician: Urd is your real name. If you want to find the true you, you need to accept it.

兀尔德？：我只是一名调查记者，偶尔给一些嬉皮士写一写传记。“兀尔德”只是我用来给特定杂志投稿的笔名。
Urd?: But I'm just a journalist, an occasional writer on hippies. Urd is simply a pseudonym for my submissions to a certain magazine.

兀尔德？：我不知道这些实验的意义，你们口中那些“为了世界和平”的话，倒很像我的一些在街头生活的客户……
Urd?: I still don't understand the purpose of this experiment. Your claims of "world peace" sound no different from many of my interviewees on the street.

实验人员：她已经准备好了。
Laboratory Technician: She's ready.

实验人员：那么，第13次灌体实验，开始——
Laboratory Technician: Vessel ensoulment test number 13, begin.

兀尔德：——维尔汀？
Urd: Vertin?

维尔汀：……妈妈？
Vertin: Mum?

兀尔德：真的是你，孩子……
Urd: It really is you, my child.

兀尔德：好久没有见面了，你的样子比我预想中的要瘦弱许多。但你长大了，这真的太好了。
Urd: It's been so, so very long. You're slighter than I'd imagined, but how wonderful it is to see how you've grown.

维尔汀：为什么你会在这里？这不是现实，我能感觉得到……你在哪里？我之后要去哪里才能找到你？
Vertin: Why are you here? This isn't reality. I can feel it. Where are you really? Where can I find you?

兀尔德：不要流泪，孩子……
Urd: Don't cry, my child.

兀尔德：此刻只是过往的一瞬，我只能告诉你一些有关过去的事——
Urd: This is but a moment from the past. I can only tell you what has already happened.

？？？：灌体实验成功了？
???: Was the ensoulment successful?

实验人员：接近成功。太令人惊叹了，之前所有的受试个体，全都无法承受实验的副作用，只有兀尔德——
Laboratory Technician: Not quite, but it's the closest we've ever gotten. Amazing, all previous subjects couldn't bear the side effects of the experiment, only Urd—

？？？：说结论。
???: State the conclusion.

实验人员：——是。在第13次实验时，兀尔德的人格也许曾在一瞬间回归。
Laboratory Technician: Yes, sir. Urd's true personality may have briefly returned during the 13th test.

实验人员：证据是琥珀屋突然消失了。换一个说法，琥珀屋突然变得无法观测，视觉和其他反馈信号全部中断。
Laboratory Technician: We know this because of the disappearance of the Amber Room. That is to say, for a few seconds, the Room became unobservable. All feedback signals were cut off.

实验人员：这种情况持续了数秒。我猜，是兀尔德借用这一瞬间的回归，让琥珀屋前往了未来。
Laboratory Technician: My assumption is that the Amber Room traveled into the future during that time.

？？？：未来？——她要去未来做什么？
???: The future? Why? For what?

……
...

？？？：那就只有在未来才知道了。
???: Only time will tell.

……
...

？？？：司辰……
???: Timekeeper.

？？？：司辰？
???: Timekeeper?

维尔汀：呃嗯……
Vertin: Er ...

？？？：——司辰！您醒了吗？
???: Timekeeper! Are you awake?

不知是自己，还是身下的土地都在摇晃。耳旁混乱的轰鸣让人感觉如同被抛向了一场飓风。
Whether it's the ground beneath her or herself that is shaking, she can't tell. With the clamor of noises around her, it's as though she's just been thrown into a hurricane.

玛尔纱：十四行诗，司辰还好吗？
Marsha: Sonetto, is the Timekeeper alright?

十四行诗：司辰……她醒过来了！
Sonetto: She's awake!

维尔汀：……十四行诗，玛尔纱？
Vertin: Sonetto, Marsha?

大脑还停留在另一个时空，眼睛已经开始确定身体的位置。
Her mind still lingers in another time while her eyes struggle to grasp where she truly is.

维尔汀：到底发生什么事了？别列格勒……
Vertin: What's happening? Is Bereggrad ...

十四行诗：别列格勒在一小时前遭到格鲁托夫军队的突然袭击，一些匪军的士兵在空中轰炸的掩护下进入了城市。
Sonetto: Krutov launched a surprise attack on Bereggrad an hour ago. Some bandits have broken into the city under the cover of their air force.

十四行诗：骑兵军和民兵正在防守城市，伊戈尔也去联络自己的军队增援了。我们需要尽快转移到安全地带。
Sonetto: The cavalry and the militia have formed a defense. Igor went to contact his people for reinforcements. We need to get you to safety as soon as possible.

维尔汀：我应该……只在下面待了十五分钟才对。
Vertin: How long was I down there? 15 minutes, right?

十四行诗：不，司辰，您已经……在下面消失了十二个小时了。我刚刚才把您从地下带出来。
Sonetto: 15 minutes? Timekeeper, you ... you've been gone for almost 12 hours. I just brought you back above ground.

维尔汀：……
Vertin: ...

玛尔纱：司辰，虽然现在这么问有些勉强，但是——你可以行动了吗？
Marsha: Timekeeper, sorry for asking so soon, but are you able to move?

维尔汀：我没问题，马上……就能站起来。
Vertin: Yes, I'm fine. Just give me one more minute.

玛尔纱：好的，眼下的情况是，格鲁托夫攻城的先锋部队占领了部分外围城区。
Marsha: Alright. Here's the situation: Krutov's vanguard has occupied part of the outskirts.

玛尔纱：这座小修道院还在友军控制区内，但是坚持不了多久了。我们需要撤退到下一个街区。
Marsha: Though this church is currently within the safe zone, it won't be for long. We need to retreat a few streets back.

玛尔纱：有一支小部队在十分钟前切断了我们的退路，稍后我会尝试突围，打开一条连接修道院和民兵据点的路线。
Marsha: Ten minutes ago, a small force cut off our retreat. I'll attempt to break through a route connecting us to the militia's stronghold.

玛尔纱：等待我的信号，司辰！
Marsha: Wait for my signal, Timekeeper.

玛尔纱：——！
Marsha: ...!!

堑壕棒不失为狭小空间中肉搏的利器，骑士很快在有敌军把守的巷道中打开了一条通路。
The knight's trench club proves an effective weapon in the cramped alleys of the city. It isn't long before Marsha has cleared a path.

玛尔纱：司辰，十四行诗，快到我这儿来！
Marsha: Timekeeper! Sonetto! This way, quick!

十四行诗：司辰，请抓紧我。
Sonetto: Timekeeper, please hold onto me.

维尔汀：嗯……
Vertin: Alright.

一半的重量压在第一助手身上，她仍然以惊人的速度穿越了开阔而危险的主要街道。
Even with half her weight on her, Sonetto manages to cross the open danger of the main street with astonishing speed.

玛尔纱：巷子的另一头就是骑兵军和别列格勒民兵占领的街区了，他们会带你们出城去安全的地方。
Marsha: At the other end of this alley is the area under our control. The Cavalry Corps will escort you out of the city to a safe place.

十四行诗：你不和我们一起离开吗，玛尔纱女士？
Sonetto: Aren't you leaving with us, Ms. Marsha?

玛尔纱：我会把你们带到军长身边，但是在敌军从城市里被赶出去之前，我会留在别列格勒，为这里的人出一份力。
Marsha: I'll take you to the commander. But after that, I'll stay in Bereggrad until the enemy is repelled.

轰炸机的残骸插在修道院的圆顶上，是刚刚被伊戈尔部队的防空高炮击落的。
The wreckage of a warplane shot down just moments ago by Igor's anti-aircraft guns lies lodged in the dome of a church.

在此之前，它和它的伙伴已经将数枚炮弹送到了民兵营地、医院、修道院和民居，声势浩大地打破了堪堪维持住的平静。
Before that, several shells had been launched into the militia camp, hospitals, churches, and residences, setting the hard-kept peace ablaze.

梅蕾尔：自己人，是自己人，她们回来了！
Merel: Friendlies! It's friendlies! They're back!

梅蕾尔放下望远镜，呼唤着让守卫街垒的民兵让出一条路，把一支刚从交火线下来的队伍放进防线后方。
Merel lowers her binoculars and calls for the militia guarding the street fortifications to clear a path, allowing the three young women to fall back into the rear formation.

留守城内的指挥官闻声而至。
The commander strides forward at the sound of her voice.

军长伊万：你受伤了吗，司辰，看起来你的状态很不好？
Commander Ivan: Are you alright, Timekeeper? You don't seem well.

维尔汀：没关系，我没有受伤，只是有点头晕。
Vertin: It's okay. I'm not hurt. Just a bit dizzy.

十四行诗：司辰在地下待了十二个小时，没有吃任何东西，她的血糖值可能会因此出问题。我先带她去吃点东西。
Sonetto: The Timekeeper hasn't eaten anything for over 12 hours. Her blood sugar might be the problem. I'll take her to have some food.

军长伊万：十四行诗小姐，司辰就交给你照顾了。我希望你能把她带到城外的骑兵军塞契。
Commander Ivan: I see. When you finish, take her to the sich outside of the city.

军长伊万：别列格勒的巷战还会持续很久，还有随时可能到来的空袭，这里并不安全。
Commander Ivan: This fight will not end soon. The city is no place to linger.

十四行诗：好的，我很快会带司辰离开。
Sonetto: Yes, Commander. I'll take her away as soon as possible.

军长伊万：那就这样办。
Commander Ivan: Make it so.

军长点了点头，转向等候在旁的骑士——不知什么时候，被骑兵军救下的落水少女已经站在她身旁。
The commander nods and turns to the knight waiting nearby. Merel is standing at her side, unnoticed until now.

军长伊万：你之前说会留在别列格勒。
Commander Ivan: And you. You swore to stay in Bereggrad.

玛尔纱：是，我可以加入民兵团的救援队，很多留在城市里的医生没有自保的能力。
Marsha: Yes, sir. I can join the militia rescue team. Many medical staff in the city cannot defend themselves.

军长伊万：很好，骑兵军与狮鹫军的部分军医也会留在城内，希望你们能互相帮助。
Commander Ivan: Good. Medics of the Cavalry Corps and Gryphon Legion will stay as well. You'll aid each other.

玛尔纱：没问题。
Marsha: Of course.

梅蕾尔：我、我也跟你一起，玛尔纱。
Merel: I-I'm coming with you, Marsha.

玛尔纱：那你就认真听我说的话。
Marsha: Fine, but do as I say.

梅蕾尔：好……
Merel: Okay.

此刻，军长已经回头去找同样留在城里的伊戈尔。
The commander looks around for Igor. The two leaders agreed to stay in the city.

后者依然举着望远镜，正看向城门口。
Igor is standing nearby, still holding a telescope, his gaze fixed on the city gate.

将军注视城门的时间很长。
He doesn't move for a long time.

军长伊万：你在看什么？
Commander Ivan: What do you see?

城门之外只有一大片一大片金色的原野。
Beyond the gate lies only the vast golden plain.

伊戈尔：我了解格鲁托夫，他要想宣战，不会只送我们几枚炮弹和一架轰炸机。
Igor: I know Krutov. If this is his declaration of war, he will not stop at bombs and bombers.

军长伊万：什么意思？你是说……
Commander Ivan: What? You mean ...

伊戈尔：来了。
Igor: It's coming.

金黄的茅草伏低了下去，被疾驰的马蹄踩出的路直直地向城门而来。
The grass bows low as black galloping hooves carve a path straight to the city.

黑马上的骑士蒙着白布，握着一把染血的镖枪，正如光临迦太基城下的罗马祭司。
A cloth-covered rider bounces limply on the horse's back. He carries a blood-smeared javelin, like a Roman priest riding toward Carthage.

伊戈尔：派来宣战的信使，真是古典的桥段。
Igor: A messenger bearing a declaration of war. Hm. A classic move.

军长伊万：可惜派来了一个不会骑马的骑兵。
Commander Ivan: A pity the man doesn't know how to ride.

信使没有抓住缰绳，在风中摇摇欲坠，如一面不祥的旗帜。黑马兀自向城门奔驰而来。
The messenger does not grip the reins. He jostles and sways, like an ominous banner battered too strongly by the wind. But the black horse only gallops faster, pummeling straight for the gate.

玛尔纱：这个人……
Marsha: That's ...

当信使与他的黑马来到城门口，骑兵们已经一字排开，用枪口迎接他。
By the time the messenger arrives, the cavalry have already formed ranks, guns trained on him.

但信使既没来得及朗读宣战书，也没有掷下染血的镖枪。
But the messenger reads no declaration of war, nor does he throw the bloodstained javelin.

不多时，信使坠向地面，黑马在一旁徒劳而哀苦地嘶吼着。
He only slides from the horse and crashes to the ground, his shattered form laid bare. The horse rears and lets out a mournful whinny.

梅蕾尔：……卡戎，安德烈森？！
Merel: Charon? Andreas?!

玛尔纱：真的是——
Marsha: I-Is that really—

红发骑士与她的同伴终于看清了来人的样子。她们一起冲向城门口，破开骑兵的包围。
They finally realize who it is. They rush to the gate, charging through the ring of cavalrymen.

梅蕾尔：——！
Merel: ...!

看见卡戎的第一眼，梅蕾尔陡然跌坐在地，双手紧紧抱住自己的脑袋。
The instant Merel lays eyes on Charon, she crumples to the ground, her arms wrapped tightly around her head.

梅蕾尔：不……不要——！
Merel: No. Don't—!

骑兵们勉强围成一圈，而战马惊恐地往后退。它们也嗅到了“死亡”的气息。
The cavalry barely manages to hold formation as the warhorses shy back, champing and stamping their feet. They, too, can smell the stench of "death."

玛尔纱：不对——不要靠近，快散开，不要去看他！梅蕾尔，到我这儿来！
Marsha: Something isn't right. Don't get close, understood? Don't look at him! Merel, come to me!

她扑向梅蕾尔，将她拖到一处掩体之后，隔绝她与卡戎之间的视线。
She lunges to Merel's side and drags her behind cover, blocking her view of Charon.

其他骑兵也在一阵阵令人作呕的哀嚎声中四散溃逃。
The cavalrymen scatter as wave after wave of nauseating howling washes over them.

此时此刻，城门边的守军不得不撤离，别列格勒门户洞开，唯有“死亡”的气息充实其间。
The guards at the city gate have no choice but to fall back. Entry to Bereggrad lies wide open, filled with nothing but the stench of "death."

玛尔纱：……必须要有人把卡戎带到封闭的场所。
Marsha: *deep breath* Someone needs to take Charon to an enclosed space.

玛尔纱：好吧，也许我可以试试。
Marsha: I suppose I'll have to give it a try.

骑士深吸一口气，像过去千百次那样将情绪冻结。她尽量不去想，今天积累的恐惧要在什么时候释放出来。
Just as she has done countless times before, Marsha draws a deep breath and stills her emotions, paying no heed to what may happen when she finally releases whatever fear she is soon to face.

她安抚地拍了拍身旁的梅蕾尔，随后走出掩体，一步步迈向“死亡”笼罩的深渊，直视着卡戎倒地不起的身躯。
She gives Merel a gentle pat on the shoulder and steps out from behind the shelter. She walks toward the abyss of "death," looking directly at Charon's fallen body.

杏仁核中的恐惧感被如期阻断。
The fear in her amygdala is severed, just as promised.

玛尔纱：奏效了。
Marsha: It's working.

玛尔纱：卡戎……天呐，他们对你做了什么？
Marsha: Charon, oh my, what have they done to you?

在她眼前的是一副无法描摹的碎裂躯壳，好像再也经不起任何更进一步的触碰。
What lies before her is barely recognizable. It isn't a body. It's a shattered, indescribable shell.

卡戎显然是被绑在马上送到别列格勒来的——感谢这些染血的绳索，他才堪堪维持住了类似于人的形状。
It is only by virtue of the blood-soaked ropes that he has managed to maintain any semblance of a human form.

失去了遮掩物，又脱离了完整躯体的压制，“死亡”正丝丝缕缕从收尸人的衣袍下溢出。
With his coverings gone, and freed from the constraints of a complete form, "death" seeps out from beneath Charon's clothes.

亡者身下的土地正肉眼可见地被浓雾浸染，黑色的军阀将“死亡”的宣告送至别列格勒。
The soil beneath him visibly darkens, the air around it swallowed in a heavy fog. Krutov has brought a declaration of death to Bereggrad.

卡戎：……
Charon: ...

玛尔纱：你刚刚是在说话吗，卡戎？
Marsha: Yes, Charon? What is it?

玛尔纱俯下身，离卡戎更近了一点，以便听到他朽坏的身躯尚且能发出的声音。
Marsha leans in close in an attempt to catch whatever sound his ruined body is still able to give voice to.

卡戎：……一个不幸的消息，我不得不……带给城里的人们……
Charon: A message from Krutov.

卡戎：格鲁托夫的军队马上就要攻破别列格勒，他……会将城市夷为平地……除非……
Charon: He swears to destroy Bereggrad, unless ...

卡戎：……交出伊戈尔。
Charon: You hand over Igor.

12TH-12 生活与命运 / Life and Fate

他不像生者那般会感受到痛苦，但痛苦很明显在他身上留下了烙印。他一定经历过难以想象的折磨。
He does not feel pain as the living do, but it has left its mark all the same. He must have endured unimaginable torment.

玛尔纱：整个身体的结构都被破坏了，神秘术能量严重外泄，这进一步导致了虚弱……
Marsha: His bodily structure is too fractured to store his arcane energy. The leakage is worsening his condition.

卡戎身躯的组合方式十分别扭，像一个人被粉碎了一千次，各个零件无法如常拼合到一起。
Charon's body is held together in an unnatural way. Like a man crushed a thousand times, his fragments no longer fit together as they should.

玛尔纱：重塑之手怎么能做出这种事。
Marsha: How could the Manus do such a thing?

梅蕾尔：为什么……他明明和这个地方毫无关系，为什么连卡戎也被……
Merel: Why? He's got nothing to do with any of this.

梅蕾尔背向着卡戎站立，她缩起的肩膀正微微发颤。
Merel stands with her back to Charon, her shoulders hunched and trembling.

梅蕾尔：我应该和你一起走的，卡戎。
Merel: I should've gone with you, Charon.

和此地毫无瓜葛的朋友正躺在担架上。他总是沉默、自持，像一堵墙，静静伫立在所有人身后。
Charon now lies on a stretcher. Silent and contained, like a black wall behind them.

经历漫长旅途之后，梅蕾尔今天第一次见到了卡戎的神秘术——庞大，空洞，如同死亡本身。
Merel finally saw Charon's arcane skill for the first time. Vast and hollow, like death itself.

梅蕾尔：不……
Merel: No ...

玛尔纱：梅蕾尔……梅蕾尔？
Marsha: Merel. Merel?

梅蕾尔：玛尔纱……我——
Merel: Marsha, *sniffle* I ...

她本能地想回头，红发骑士的双手立刻扣在她的肩上，把她拧了回去。
She instinctively turns to her, but Marsha grips her shoulders firmly, holding her back in place.

玛尔纱：别转身，我只是想提醒你打起精神，卡戎似乎想说些什么。
Marsha: Don't turn around. I think Charon wants to tell you something.

梅蕾尔：你……你想说什么，卡戎？
Merel: What? What is it, Charon?

卡戎：……梅蕾尔……
Charon: Merel ...

梅蕾尔：别、别说了，是我不好！
Merel: *sob* Charon, I'm sorry! It's all my fault!

仅仅一个词语，就让她的话如决堤河水，汹涌而出。
With a single word, Merel's words come rushing like a river breaking its banks.

梅蕾尔：我们一起走了这么久，这么远，我害你和我一起东躲西藏，最后……最后遇到危险我就丢下你不管了。
Merel: You protected me, walked with me all this way, hid me, kept me safe, and ... and after all that, after everything you've done for me, I left you there all alone!

梅蕾尔：我要是再厉害一点，就能把你一起带走，或者从别人手上把你救回来，可是……
Merel: If only I weren't such a weakling, if only I were brave like the others, I could've taken you with me, saved you for once.

梅蕾尔：可是……可是……
Merel: But ... but ...

梅蕾尔：是我太没有用了……对不起，是我害了你和安德烈森……对不起，我……你可能不会变成这样的——
Merel: It's all my fault. I'm useless. I should never have left you behind. If it weren't for me, you could've ... you could've ...

梅蕾尔：呜……
Merel: *whimper*

更多的话还没有说出口，它们全都一股脑地哽在她的喉咙里。
The words choke in her throat before they can be spoken.

卡戎：……不，梅蕾尔……
Charon: No, Merel ...

卡戎这才有机会重拾破碎的言语。
Charon finds a chance to piece together his broken speech.

卡戎：你答应过我，遇见危险就会逃走……
Charon: You promised to run away when danger came.

卡戎：为什么你现在还……留在这里？为什么不去更远的……更安全的地方……？
Charon: Why do you remain here? Go. Find a safe place.

梅蕾尔：但我……已经没办法逃跑了。不，我不应该逃走的。
Merel: No. I can't. I can't run away anymore. I shouldn't.

梅蕾尔：从、从最开始，我就不应该逃走的。
Merel: I should never have run in the first place.

梅蕾尔：如果我老老实实地归队，如果我没说要和你一起走……如果……
Merel: If I'd just gone back to the squad, if I hadn't asked to go with you, if ...

梅蕾尔：呜……呜……
Merel: *whimper*

梅蕾尔又伤心得说不出话了。
Merel is too overwhelmed to speak.

有一双手拭去了她满面的泪水。
A pair of hands gently wipes the tears from her face.

玛尔纱：你哭成这样，我还怎么指望你和我一起把卡戎治好？
Marsha: Hush now. How are you supposed to help me fix Charon up if you keep crying like this?

梅蕾尔：……
Merel: ...

玛尔纱：别忘了我们要做的事。
Marsha: Don't forget what we need to do.

玛尔纱：卡戎不会有事的，只要意识的载体能够复原，他应该就能慢慢恢复过来。
Marsha: Charon will be fine. As long as we can restore the vessel of his consciousness, he'll recover.

玛尔纱：现在只有我能面对卡戎，而我需要一个信得过的助手，也就是说，这里能帮他的只有我们两个了，明白了吗？
Marsha: I'm the only one who can look at him right now, and I need a reliable assistant. Only the two of us can help him. Do you understand?

梅蕾尔：对……没错，我明白。
Merel: Yes. *sniff* Right. I understand.

玛尔纱：那么，休息一下，擦擦眼泪。
Marsha: Then take a moment and wipe your tears.

玛尔纱：整个过程不会很轻松，但很快就会结束。
Marsha: It won't be an easy task, but it'll soon be over.

玛尔纱：听我的指令，我要什么东西就立刻递给我，能做到吗，梅蕾尔？
Marsha: Just follow my instructions and give me what I need when I ask for it. Can you do that, Merel?

少年踩在倒塌的石柱上，身后是插在修道院房顶的轰炸机。
A boy steps onto a fallen stone pillar, the wreckage of the warplane in the church behind him.

飞机被击落了，但它的身子依然耀武扬威，时刻提醒着这座城市有多么脆弱。
It's been shot down, yet it still seems to posture in defiance—a grim reminder of how fragile this city is.

市民代表：别列格勒不能成为牺牲品！
Citizen Representative: We will not be victims!

市民们：别列格勒不能成为牺牲品！
Citizens: We will not be victims!

许多人围着费奥多尔·彼得罗维奇，彼此紧挨着，成了一个紧密的圈。
One by one, people gather around Fyodor Petrovich, quickly forming a tight circle.

市民代表：保护别列格勒！交出伊戈尔！
Citizen Representative: Save Bereggrad! Hand over Igor!

市民们：交出伊戈尔！
Citizens: Hand over Igor!

不断有零星的人靠近他们，成为圈的一部分。
More and more voices join the chanting.

剩下的居民在不远的地方看着，没有加入示威的圆环。有人掩面私语，有人抬起头，忧心忡忡地看着即将落下炸弹的天空。
The rest of the residents linger at a distance. Some whisper behind covered mouths. Others lift anxious eyes to the sky, searching for bombs that may yet fall.

示威的市民翻越街巷上堆砌的障碍物，终于在城防指挥部前的街垒前被黑洞洞的枪口拦下。
The chanting crowd clambers over the street barricades, only to be halted by gun barrels before the fortifications of the city defense headquarters.

谢尔盖：别往前走！
Sergey: Stop! Don't go any further!

市民代表：滚开，你这胡子还没长齐的小毛孩。我要和你们的军长说话。
Citizen Representative: Stand aside, kid. I need to talk to your commander.

谢尔盖：你要说就在这儿说，我给你传话。
Sergey: You can tell me. I'll pass it on.

谢尔盖察觉到身侧有人推了他一把。
Sergey feels a shove from the side.

民兵：我认得这人，小子，我来和他说。
Militiaman: Hey, I know this man. Let me talk to him.

别列格勒民兵攀上街垒，好站得更高些。
The Bereggrad militiaman climbs onto the fortifications, standing taller.

民兵：费奥多尔，带着你的人滚回去吧！还是说，你就是要来给我们添乱的？
Militiaman: Fyodor, take your people and turn back! Or are you here just to cause trouble?

市民代表：迪马，你怎么还和骑兵军站在一起？我告诉你吧，民兵团有好多人都站在我们这边了。
Citizen Representative: Still standing strong with the cavalry, are we, Dima? Don't you know how many have sided with us?

民兵：他们就是一些没断奶的羊，被人一声吼就吓得四脚朝天了。
Militiaman: Them? Pah, just little sheep following any dog that barks at them!

市民代表：真是说不通道理——只要把那个叫伊戈尔的人交出去，格鲁托夫就不烧咱们的城。为什么不做这个买卖呢？
Citizen Representative: You idiots! All we have to do is hand over that Igor, and Krutov will leave us be! The choice is obvious!

谢尔盖：你这城里人，白痴，土匪的话也听！
Sergey: You're the idiot! They're bandits! You can't trust a word they say!

市民代表：那你又知道这伊戈尔是什么玩意？
Citizen Representative: And this Igor? Who is he?

市民代表：顿河上下有谁认识伊戈尔？把他送出去又有什么坏处？骑兵军说要守城，那把伊戈尔交出去，这事不就完了？
Citizen Representative: No one here has ever even heard of him. It's no skin off our back to hand him over. You cavalry said you wanted to protect the city. Now is your chance!

市民代表：伊戈尔和格鲁托夫有恩怨，就让他们自己到草原上解决。
Citizen Representative: If Krutov has some personal issue with Igor, then I say they solve it themselves on the steppe!

谢尔盖：你什么都搞不明白，大叔，我一看你这鼻子，就知道你早就把自己的脑子喝坏了。
Sergey: You don't know what you're talking about. The drink's pickled your brain. Just look at your nose.

谢尔盖：别在这里废话了，我听着都头疼。这事要怎么做，难道还是你说了算呀？
Sergey: You've got no say here anyway. So shut it and go home.

人群爆发出一阵嘈杂的、无法辨认内容的嘘声。
A cacophony of boos erupts from the crowd.

民兵：有这股热情劲儿，倒是带你们的人去把土匪占着的鱼市场夺回来啊！
Militiaman: Or you can use your enthusiasm to fight off the bandits and get our market back.

军长收回了投向窗外的目光。
The commander turns from the window.

军长伊万：告诉一营营长，让他带上几个机灵点儿的兵去疏散堵在外面的市民。
Commander Ivan: Tell the first battalion's commander to evacuate the citizens trapped outside. Just a few sharp soldiers. Don't worsen the situation.

军长伊万：记住，别擦枪走火了。费奥多尔不敢真的动手，他还要留着命享受家里数不完的钱。
Commander Ivan: Be careful. No misfires. Fyodor won't dare start a real fight. He'd sooner roll in his wealth than die.

斯捷尔诺娃：是。
Sternova: Yes, Commander.

斯捷尔诺娃带着命令离去。
Sternova leaves at the order.

军长伊万：格鲁托夫不愧是你的人，伊戈尔。
Commander Ivan: You taught Krutov well, Igor.

军长伊万：这离间的计策老套但有效，我们的士兵不擅长巷战，保卫别列格勒需要依靠民兵团和市民的配合。
Commander Ivan: He has driven a wedge between us. Old-fashioned, but effective. He knows we need both the militia and the citizens to hold Bereggrad.

军长伊万：格鲁托夫把你的名字抛出来后，至少有一半人失去了对我们的信任。
Commander Ivan: One whispered deal, and half turn against us.

伊戈尔：他会用一切方法让我死得更狼狈一点。
Igor: He will do anything to bring me a humiliating death.

军长伊万：为什么格鲁托夫这么执着地要你的命？我以前确实和他处不来，看不出他这么恨你。
Commander Ivan: Why? I never warmed to him, true, but I had no inkling his hatred ran so deep.

伊戈尔沉默半晌，像是要在一处黑暗的深潭中捞取思绪。
Igor falls silent, as if fishing his thoughts from the depths of a dark pond.

伊戈尔：他和我一样，在圣保罗之后都无法再回头，只能在认定的路上走下去。
Igor: Like me, there was no turning back for him after São Paulo. He can only continue down the path he has laid.

伊戈尔：与重塑之手达成一次性的交易之后，他怨恨我给的不够多，不值得他与我一同做出那些所谓“正确的牺牲”。
Igor: Since the deal with Manus Vindictae, he has resented me. He claims I shorted him for his sacrifice.

伊戈尔：格鲁托夫认为脱离重塑之手是一个巨大的错误，他希望从他们身上攫取更多力量。
Igor: He also believes our break from the Manus was a grave mistake. He wishes to wrest more power from them.

伊戈尔：不过，我承诺给他的从来都不是力量，而是生存。但他仍然不明白，以为“奇迹”是能让他接近神明的圣物。
Igor: But I never promised him power; I promised him a chance at survival. Still, he calls the "boon" a sacred thing that will grant him the power of a god.

伊戈尔：格鲁托夫把这种观念不合当成是我的软弱，执着于向我证明他的道路才称得上正确。
Igor: Krutov took my choice as weakness. Now, he is obsessed with proving that his path is the right one.

伊戈尔：……他一直都想杀死我，夺走我向重塑之手换来的“奇迹”，或者是向重塑之手证明自己的价值。
Igor: He wants to kill me, to take the "boon," to prove his worth to the Manus.

伊戈尔：所以，我们可以利用这种“执着”。
Igor: We can take advantage of this.

窗外的街道上，已经传来骑兵军与市民发生争执的声音。
Outside, arguments between the cavalrymen and citizens rise and fall along the street.

伊戈尔：有一点是没错的，决定性的战斗会在郊外发生。我们不能在城内久留。
Igor: One thing is certain: this decisive battle will not be inside the city. We cannot stay here long.

伊戈尔：一起出城吧，伊万。我们最好在回营地的路上就找到击败格鲁托夫的办法。
Igor: Let us leave together, Ivan. We will discuss our strategy on the way to camp.

12TH-13 诀别书 / Farewell Letter

斯捷尔诺娃：……那么，这就是你和伊戈尔商议的作战计划？
Sternova: So, you're saying you devised this plan with Igor?

斯捷尔诺娃与军长隔着地图桌相对而立，她焦躁地将用来代表军事力量的指示物挪来挪去。
Sternova stands opposite the commander, the map table between them. Agitated, she shifts the markers representing the military forces back and forth.

军长抬头看了她一眼，尽管后者并未言明，但她的态度不言而喻。
The commander glances up at her. Her words are minimal, but her stance is made clear.

军长伊万：把那个狮鹫放下吧，斯捷尔诺娃，现在我们和伊戈尔站在同一条船上。
Commander Ivan: Put the gryphon down, Sabina. We're all in the same boat now.

斯捷尔诺娃挥了挥手，把狮鹫木雕甩到了地图的边缘。
Sternova raises a hand and sweeps the wooden gryphon to the edge of the table.

斯捷尔诺娃：我非常认同你提出的作战计划，军长，但我仍然不认为可以放心地把后背交给伊戈尔。
Sternova: I'm not questioning your orders, but I will state for the record that leaving our back wide open to Igor is too risky.

斯捷尔诺娃：天黑后，让骑兵军放弃辎重，沿左岸向上游发动奇袭，清扫所有遭遇的敌方部队并切断格鲁托夫的补给路线。
Sternova: After dark, the cavalry will advance upstream with minimal gear to launch a surprise attack, cutting off Krutov's supply lines.

斯捷尔诺娃：——我不怀疑计划的可行性，骑兵们熟悉河岸的田地与山谷，我军的机动性能得到最大程度的发挥。
Sternova: It makes sense. Our riders know the terrain like the back of their hand; this will allow us to capitalize on our superior mobility.

斯捷尔诺娃：但把右岸林地、塞契与别列格勒的城防交给伊戈尔，让他来保护我们的后方——
Sternova: But we would be leaving the right bank, the forest, the sich, and even Bereggrad exposed.

斯捷尔诺娃：这和把羊肉送到狮子嘴里有什么区别？只要伊戈尔愿意，骑兵军随时会身处腹背受敌的境况。
Sternova: We're throwing ourselves into the old lion's mouth and praying he won't bite!

军长伊万：如果同盟的两军不能互相信任，那只会被逐一击破，任何作战计划都无从谈起。
Commander Ivan: You're right. We'd be exposed. But a coalition without trust wins nothing.

军长伊万：你已经见识过格鲁托夫的军队了，骑兵军和民兵团都没有能力应付敌人的空中力量和地面的重武器。
Commander Ivan: You've seen Krutov and his army. Neither the Cavalry Corps nor the militia can meet his air power or artillery.

军长伊万：如果没有伊戈尔带来的几台高射炮，别列格勒在第一轮空袭中就能被炸成废墟。
Commander Ivan: Bereggrad would be rubble if not for Igor's anti-air guns.

斯捷尔诺娃：……
Sternova: ...

她想起撤离别列格勒时，印在视野中的被航空炸弹削去半边拱顶的救济院。
Her thoughts drift to the poorhouse, its dome half-destroyed in a bomb dropped during their withdrawal from Bereggrad.

军长伊万：狮鹫军装备精良，但人数不多，而且没有建立完备的补给线。他们更适合依托城市和林地构筑防线。
Commander Ivan: The Gryphon Legion is well-equipped, but they're thin on numbers and supplies. They will hold cities and forests best.

军长伊万：所以，把城市和林地交给伊戈尔，骑兵军从侧翼找机会袭击敌军，我和伊戈尔都认为这是一个合理的选择。
Commander Ivan: Let them guard the city. Our riders will flank the enemy by night. Both Igor and I agree on this.

斯捷尔诺娃：但……
Sternova: But ...

她变得有些迟疑。她知道长官是对的，可南美洲的硝烟仍是笼罩在这场合作之上的阴霾。
She knows the commander has reasons, yet the smoke of South America still hangs heavy in her memory, casting an inescapable shadow over this coalition.

军长伊万：我理解你的疑虑。
Commander Ivan: I hear your concerns, Sabina.

军长拿起狮鹫木雕，让它降落在塞契。
He picks up the wooden gryphon and sets it down on the sich.

军长伊万：伊戈尔本人会留在骑兵军塞契，不会前往前线。而他与麾下部队的每一次通话都会处于我们的监控之下。
Commander Ivan: When the operation begins, Igor will come to our sich. All his communication will be monitored.

斯捷尔诺娃：我们的联络电台没有侵入伊戈尔方面线路的能力，要怎么窃听他？
Sternova: How? I doubt our operators can tap his lines so effectively.

军长伊万：不，我们不需要窃听他。在回营地的路上，我已经向伊戈尔提过公开通讯的要求。
Commander Ivan: There will be no such need. On our return from the city, I asked Igor to use only our lines for the operation.

军长伊万：他同意了。
Commander Ivan: He agreed.

斯捷尔诺娃：……
Sternova: ...

斯捷尔诺娃迟疑地点了点头。
Sternova nods hesitantly.

斯捷尔诺娃：我还是会盯着他的。
Sternova: I see. Still, I'll be keeping an eye on him.

伊戈尔：——我非常欢迎你的监督，上校。
Igor: Your scrutiny is welcome, Colonel Sternova.

不请自来的叛军将领走入营帐，踩在了参谋长本就紧绷的神经上。
The rebel leader enters the tent, his presence tightening the already frayed nerves of the chief of staff.

伊戈尔顶着斯捷尔诺娃审视的目光，将一份文件放在了沙盘上。
Under Sternova's piercing gaze, he places a document on the table.

斯捷尔诺娃：这是什么？
Sternova: What's this?

伊戈尔：我手上关于格鲁托夫本人的所有资料。履历、心理状态报告，以及他的神秘术登记表。
Igor: All the information I have on Krutov: his background, academic record, military experience, psychological profile, and a registered list of his arcane skills.

一份及时雨般的情报，同时也是一份绝佳的“诚意”。它成功让斯捷尔诺娃欲言又止，让合作得以延续。
The information comes like rain upon a desert. Such clear proof of good faith silences Sternova's worries. She silently agrees to allow the collaboration to continue.

军长伊万：好吧，过去我确实不太了解格鲁托夫。在开战之前，我会仔细看完你给我的资料。
Commander Ivan: Thank you. We know little of Krutov. I'll be sure to read this before we begin.

午前的烈日下，一些模糊的影子被投射在营帐的幕墙上。
Under the high noon sun, blurred shadows fall across the canvas wall of the tent.

斯捷尔诺娃：帐篷外有人？他们在做什么？
Sternova: Hm? Who's that gathering outside?

伊戈尔：我在进来之前，看见营地里有一些军官在商量什么事。也许聚在外面的就是他们。
Igor: I saw some officers discussing something in camp. It may be them.

军长伊万：莎宾娜，和我一起出去看看。
Commander Ivan: Let us hear what they have to say, Sabina.

斯捷尔诺娃：这是……
Sternova: This is ...

果然有不少人围在营帐之外——如伊戈尔所料，这些人大多都是军官。
Just as Igor predicted, there is a group of officers standing outside the tent.

他们手贴着裤缝，表情复杂，谨慎地站在距离帐门数米开外的地方。
Their hands rest along the seams of their trousers, their faces each wearing a complicated, cautious expression.

军长伊万：骑兵军马上就要出征了，你们像这样聚在一起，是想做什么呢？
Commander Ivan: Why are you out here jabbering when you should be making preparations?

第五团团长从队伍中向前一小步，行了一个标准的军礼。
The leader of the 5th Regiment takes a small step forward and delivers a textbook salute.

山羊胡骑兵：军长，我将代表军官和士兵们向您提出请求，希望得到您的首肯。
"Goat": Commander, I am here to make a request of you. On behalf of the men, sir.

军长伊万：说。
Commander Ivan: I'm listening.

军官代表深吸一口气。下巴上的山羊胡微微颤抖着。
He draws a deep breath. The goatee upon his chin trembles slightly.

山羊胡骑兵：军里有不少人的家就在附近，往返营地不过半天。他们希望能赶在动身之前，回家看一看亲人。
"Goat": As you know, many of our comrades have homes nearby—families. We formally request a half-day's leave to visit them.

山羊胡骑兵：我们不是害怕即将到来的战斗，哥萨克们都愿意为了顿河流干最后一滴血。
"Goat": I swear to you, sir. Not a single rider will shirk their duties. We are Cossacks, true, ready to shed blood on the battlefield.

山羊胡骑兵：因为我们的父母、祖父母，还有他们的父母与祖父母，都生活在草原上，都是骁勇的战士。
"Goat": We were born soldiers of the steppe, just as our fathers were, and theirs before them.

山羊胡骑兵：但我们也知道，明日的太阳升起后，很多人会死在战场上，这也许是他们最后一次与亲人见面的机会，所以……
"Goat": We know that not all of us will live to see the rising of the sun tomorrow. So, if we have a chance to see our loved ones ...

骑兵团长咬着牙，似乎忘记了准备好的、将要在军长面前说的话。
He clenches his teeth. Facing the commander, the speech he prepared seems to have slipped from his mind.

他干脆就此闭上嘴。毕竟最重要的请求已经给出。
So he simply remains silent. After all, the most important request has already been made.

军长伊万：……
Commander Ivan: ...

军长背过手，仿佛并未听见团长的请求。他的视线在一顶顶哥萨克军帽上掠过。
The commander clasps his hands behind his back, his gaze sweeping over the rows of Cossack military caps.

军官们追随着军长的视线，没有任何人敢打破这份寂静。
The soldiers follow his eyes. No one dares break the silence.

随后，他举起左手，置于耳旁，向后摆了摆手。
Then, he waves a hand.

军长伊万：半天能回营地的，允许回家探亲。快去快回。
Commander Ivan: A half-day. No more. Go see your families.

骑兵军官中爆发出一阵苦涩的欢呼。
A bittersweet cheer erupts from the soldiers.

营帐边的情绪很快向四周传递，营地内的其他士兵旋即从这股热烈的氛围中得知了军长的答复。
The feeling spreads quickly throughout the camp, the other soldiers soon learning of the commander's answer from the rising fervor.

斯捷尔诺娃：今晚出发前，我要看到全员在草原塞契归队，违者以逃兵论处！
Sternova: Anyone who fails to return to the sich before nightfall will be branded as a deserter. Do I make myself clear?

骑兵们在此起彼伏的“遵命”“谢谢”中离开了。军长长叹一口气，与斯捷尔诺娃对视了一眼。
The cavalrymen disperse to the tune of "Yes, sir" and "Thank you, sir." The commander lets out a long sigh and meets Sternova's eyes.

斯捷尔诺娃：你打算回红柳树村吗？
Sternova: Will you be paying a visit to Tamarovka?

军长伊万：不了。
Commander Ivan: No.

他摇了摇头。
He shakes his head.

军长伊万：进来吧，出发之前，我们还有不少事要处理。
Commander Ivan: There is much to prepare. Come. Let us return to it.

军长将一沓空白的信纸放在桌上，推向斯捷尔诺娃。
The commander sets a pile of blank letter paper on the table and pushes it toward Sternova.

军长伊万：传令给所有没有回家的人，留封信吧。
Commander Ivan: Pass these papers to any soldier not going home. Tell them to write a letter if they wish.

斯捷尔诺娃神色晦暗地看着信纸，又看了看桌后的军长与伊戈尔。
Sternova's gaze darkens. She glances at the commander, to Igor, and back again.

最后，她点了点头，抱着大半信纸退出了临时会议室。
Then, at last, she nods. She gathers the paper, turns, and leaves the makeshift meeting room.

伊戈尔：大战前允许士兵返乡，不是一位英明指挥官的举措。仁慈会挫伤士气，家人的关怀容易使士兵丧失斗志。
Igor: Not the wisest choice—sending them home just before a major operation. Their families will plead for them to stay.

军长伊万：他们会回来的，一个不落。你应该和我一样了解这群哥萨克。
Commander Ivan: But they will return. All of them. You share their blood, Igor, you should know this.

军长伊万：他们决不允许顿河变成流淌亲人鲜血的红河，这时候放他们回家，只会让士气烧得更猛烈。
Commander Ivan: And a Cossack will do anything to protect their home and family. The embrace of those they fight to protect will only sharpen their resolve.

军长淡然地为自己和临时盟友斟了杯添加了胡椒的黑茶。
The commander pours himself and his temporary ally a cup of dark tea spiced with pepper.

伊戈尔：你很信任他们，但他们甚至都不知道你真正的来历，也不明白芝诺想要他们做什么。
Igor: Maybe you think you know them, but they know little of you and even less about what Zeno expects of them.

伊戈尔：对家乡的眷恋会妨碍骑兵军真正的任务，总有一天他们会离开顿河，前往其他战场。
Igor: They will be sent to other battlefields, away from their homes. Their homesickness will be a liability.

军长伊万：这些话我在他们入伍的时候都已经说过了。新兵嘴上说明白，可心里始终不相信真有离开家乡的那一天。
Commander Ivan: They knew what service meant when they enlisted. Though, I cannot say if they are truly ready to leave their homeland behind.

伊戈尔：战火会平等地焚烧每一寸土地，但也会把军队中的纽带炼成牢不可破的锁链。看来你仍然相信这一点。
Igor: Homeland ... Every war is fought on someone's home, yet its name is used to forge the young into unbreakable soldiers. It seems you still understand this.

伊戈尔：那你呢，伊万？你为什么不回去一趟？往返红柳树村的路，在别列格勒城陷落前还算安全。
Igor: But tell me, Ivan, why don't you go to Tamarovka? The roads should still be safe.

军长伊万：……
Commander Ivan: ...

伊万拿起茶杯，啜饮一口。
Ivan lifts his cup and takes a sip.

伊戈尔：还是说，你终究认为1920年的顿河并不真正属于你，你也没有做好准备，告知你的士兵们关于时代的真相。
Igor: Or is it that the Don of this era is no home to you? Are you afraid to tell your soldiers the truth?

军长正了正制服领口，他在寻找一个可以岔开话题的方式。
The commander adjusts the collar of his uniform, searching for a way to change the subject.

军长伊万：我没必要向你解释什么。还有，在我这儿，你也享有和其他人相同的待遇。
Commander Ivan: Ha. I don't answer to you anymore, Igor. In fact, you're one of mine now. You should join them.

伊戈尔：什么意思？
Igor: Join them? What do you mean?

军长伊万：我是说，你也可以给自己的亲人写封信。
Commander Ivan: Write a letter to your loved ones.

意料之外的提议让伊戈尔陷入了沉默。
The unexpected proposal renders Igor silent.

军长伊万：格鲁托夫是冲着你本人来的，如果前线失利，你多半无法从战场脱身。
Commander Ivan: Krutov bears a grudge against you. It is clear. If we fail, he will show you no mercy.

军长伊万：那么，你没有需要道别的亲人吗？还是说，这个时代的一切，对你而言都是过眼烟云？
Commander Ivan: So, anyone to bid farewell to? Or is this era truly just a fleeting wind to you?

伊戈尔将热茶一口饮尽，起身，重新披上大衣。
Igor drinks the hot tea in one gulp. He rises and pulls on his coat.

伊戈尔：再见。
Igor: I'll leave you to your work.

军长伊万：希望战争结束后，我们不会再见面。
Commander Ivan: After this battle, Igor, I hope never to see you again.

伊戈尔从军长桌上取走了几张信纸，离开了营帐。
Taking a few sheets of letter paper from the commander's desk, Igor steps out of the tent.

军长独自站立着，仿佛在等待什么事情到来。不多时，接通指挥部的电台如预料般发出了警报般的提示音。
The commander remains standing, as if waiting for something to arrive. Soon, the radio linked to headquarters chirps its alarming tone as expected.

芝诺指挥部：布列科夫少将，司辰已经安全了吗？
Zeno Command Liaison Officer: Vice Admiral Burakov, is the Timekeeper safe?

军长伊万：司辰处在安全地点，她说已经初步完成了在别列格勒的任务。
Commander Ivan: Yes. She says her mission in Bereggrad is mostly complete.

芝诺指挥部：初步完成？那就够了，这足够我们向基金会的委员交差。
Zeno Command Liaison Officer: Good. We'll relay this to the Foundation Committee.

芝诺指挥部：你在顿河的任务结束了，立刻撤出该区域。
Zeno Command Liaison Officer: With that settled, your orders are to pull the Cavalry Corps from the region, effective immediately.

军长伊万：立刻？——原本的命令是在两周的时间内确保别列格勒的安全。骑兵军正在执行领受的任务。
Commander Ivan: Immediately? We were given two weeks to secure Bereggrad.

军长伊万：有一支受重塑之手援助的匪军正在威胁顿河地区，骑兵军会留下来解决他们之后再离开。
Commander Ivan: A warlord and his bandits, aided by Manus Vindictae, have been running rampant on the Don. We are working to neutralize this threat before redeployment.

芝诺指挥部：别列格勒和顿河在全局战略中并不重要。重塑之手的主力全在西线，在兵力有限的情况下，我们只能放弃。
Zeno Command Liaison Officer: Manus Vindictae's forces are concentrated on the Western Front. Our manpower is already stretched too thin. We can't afford to hold the Don River, not while there are more important strategic goals.

芝诺指挥部：我们没法给你两周时间了。
Zeno Command Liaison Officer: The decision is set. No two weeks.

军长伊万：那我只需要五天。五天之内，我就能解决顿河的问题，之后骑兵军会立即前往匈牙利。
Commander Ivan: Five days, that's all I ask. We will resolve the threat here and ride to Hungary without delay.

芝诺指挥部：解决？和伊戈尔的叛军一起解决？
Zeno Command Liaison Officer: And how do you plan to "resolve the threat"? With Igor's rebels?

军长伊万：……
Commander Ivan: ...

芝诺指挥部：不要以为指挥部不知道你和伊戈尔叛军的交往，为了司辰，伊里内伊的人可以睁一只眼闭一只眼。
Zeno Command Liaison Officer: Did you really think you could hide your coalition with Igor and his traitors? Irinei only turned a blind eye for the Timekeeper's sake.

芝诺指挥部：但既然司辰已经离开了，你继续和伊戈尔合作的理由是什么？
Zeno Command Liaison Officer: But the Timekeeper has finished her work, and you are still collaborating with them.

芝诺指挥部：如果委员会发起质询，你想好了要怎么回答吗？
Zeno Command Liaison Officer: Are you prepared to face the Committee if they demand an explanation?

军长伊万：…………
Commander Ivan: ...

芝诺指挥部：布列科夫少将？
Zeno Command Liaison Officer: Vice Admiral Burakov, do you read me?

芝诺指挥部：伊万·伊万诺维奇，你听见我说的话了吗？
Zeno Command Liaison Officer: Ivan Ivanovich, you understand what I'm saying, don't you?

芝诺指挥部：伊万，你会酿成大祸的！
Zeno Command Liaison Officer: You'll obey orders, or you'll face the consequences, Ivan!

军长伊万：……我和我的骑兵军会保卫我们的家乡，我们的家人，所以我选择与伊戈尔的叛军合作。
Commander Ivan: To protect our home and kin. That is why I stand with Igor's rebels.

军长伊万：这是我在军事法庭上会给出的答复。
Commander Ivan: That will be my only answer to the tribunal.

12TH-14 远征前夜 / The Night Before War

十四行诗推门而出。午后的风从草原深处吹来，带着不合时宜的干热。她站住脚，望着那片广袤无垠的草原与天交际处的地平线。
Sonetto steps outside, looking out over the endless grassland and to the sky beyond. The afternoon wind rushes from across the steppe, carrying an unseasonable dryness.

风拂过橘色的长发。行程紧迫的疲惫、大战在即的肃穆与因责任感而紧绷的神经，难得地得到了舒缓。
It gently rustles through her hair. The weariness from her relentless schedule, the weight of the coming war, and the tension she bears from her responsibilities are, for a brief moment, faintly eased.

伊戈尔：十四行诗小姐。
Igor: Greetings, Ms. Sonetto.

十四行诗：……伊戈尔先生。
Sonetto: Mr. Igor.

见面的礼节十分生硬。这不妨碍硬朗的老将军背靠在不远处的树下，闭着眼睛聆听着什么。
Their greeting is awkward, yet it doesn't stop the tough old admiral from leaning against a tree not far away. He gently closes his eyes, as if listening for something.

他从什么时候开始站在那儿的？十四行诗将这个疑问吞入腹中。
How long has he been standing there? Sonetto swallows the question before it reaches her lips.

十四行诗：你在做什么？
Sonetto: What are you doing out here?

伊戈尔：我在听风拂过草地的声音，它像一种启示，能够在战争开始前平复我的心情。
Igor: There's a sound as the wind brushes over the grasslands. I find it eases my mind.

第一助手凝神感受着风经过的声音。半晌后，她才继续提问。
Sonetto focuses in on the same sound. After a moment, she resumes her questions.

十四行诗：你是来找司辰的，对吗？
Sonetto: You're here for the Timekeeper, is that right?

伊戈尔：她还在休息？看来那里面的东西给她带来了不小的冲击。
Igor: Is she still resting? What she saw in the Amber Room must have impacted her greatly.

考虑到眼前这位老人的特殊身份，十四行诗藏在身后的手握紧了术杖。
Aware of the old man's special status, Sonetto tightens her grip on the wand hidden behind her back.

伊戈尔：别太紧绷着神经，年轻人。我没有别的意思，只是希望和司辰谈一谈。
Igor: I only want to have a word with her. Nothing more.

伊戈尔：现在，我们是同一个阵营的盟友。
Igor: We're on the same side.

马靴踩过草地的声音从身后传来。
Footsteps crunch through the dirt behind them.

维尔汀：……在击败格鲁托夫前，我们暂时是盟友。
Vertin: For the time being, yes, until Krutov is defeated.

伊戈尔：是我有失考量，我没想到你留在琥珀屋里的时间会这么长。格鲁托夫的军队进攻时，我不得不去指挥军队。
Igor: I owe you an apology, leaving you in the Amber Room for so long. My troops needed their leader when Krutov attacked.

维尔汀：这没什么，你有你的责任，我也有面对风险的准备。十四行诗和玛尔纱留下来帮助了我。
Vertin: Think nothing of it. I was prepared for the risks. Besides, Sonetto and Marsha were there to help me.

伊戈尔：我想知道，你在琥珀屋中看到了什么？
Igor: What did you see there, in the Room?

开门见山的提问。
An overt question.

自亘古而来的恐惧没由来地侵袭了视野，几次深呼吸后，理智才稍稍从角落挤了回来。
A fear older than memory floods her vision. After a few deep breaths, reason slowly returns.

维尔汀：我见到了兀尔德，可她对自己的身份存有疑虑，而有一些声音坚持让她相信自己就是兀尔德。
Vertin: I believe it was Urd. She seemed unsure of that herself. There were others there trying to convince her of her own identity.

维尔汀：她经历了一场残酷的实验。在一个瞬间，她看到了我、认出了我，来到了我面前，之后又消失不见。
Vertin: She was being put through some kind of disturbing experiment, and for a brief moment, she caught sight of me. She walked towards me, then vanished.

维尔汀：我似乎经历了一场实验。不过，真正经历它的不是我，而是……兀尔德。
Vertin: I felt like I'd been put into some kind of experiment. But it wasn't me. It was Urd.

维尔汀：这场实验重复了很多次，每一次都会给她带去巨大的痛苦。这一切似乎都是为了把她转变为另外一个人。
Vertin: They ran the experiment over and over, each time Urd suffering immense pain. It all seemed designed to transform her into someone else.

维尔汀：我看见了一间纯白的房间，我从没见过那样的白色。兀尔德……她就坐在白色房间中的一把椅子上。
Vertin: I saw a pure white room, a kind of white I've never seen before. And Urd ... She was sat in a chair at the center of it.

维尔汀：之后，她在椅子上痛苦地挣扎。我想要帮助她，但什么也做不到。我们之间隔着一层打不破的东西。
Vertin: She was struggling, as if she were in pain. I wanted to help, but I couldn't reach her.

维尔汀：我还看见了很多……但都是一些我不能完全理解的画面。
Vertin: I saw other things, too, but they were blurry and fragmented.

伊戈尔：画面？我还以为他们撤离时把屏幕设备都搬走了。
Igor: The video clips? Then they didn't take their devices with them when they evacuated after all.

维尔汀：不，不是影像资料。
Vertin: No, whatever I saw wasn't footage.

维尔汀：有些事还没弄明白，我想要再回一次琥珀屋。
Vertin: I have to enter the Amber Room once more to make sense of what I saw.

伊戈尔沉吟片刻，摇了摇头。
Igor falls silent for a moment, then shakes his head.

伊戈尔：我不建议你这么做，别列格勒城内的巷战还在继续，哪一方都无法保证能长时间控制那座修道院。
Igor: I advise against it. There are still skirmishes being fought in the city. No one can guarantee the church will stay safe for long.

伊戈尔：骑兵军准备发动野战，红弩箭中尉还在外执行拔除术阵节点的任务，除了你的助手外，分不出任何人手保护你。
Igor: The Cavalry Corps is preparing for a surprise assault tonight. Lieutenant Lilya is in the field trying to locate and destroy the Manus's rites. Your assistant will be your only protection.

伊戈尔：司辰对重塑之手有特殊的意义——如果被他们发现你出现在别列格勒，他们一定会想尽办法劫持你。
Igor: You're too important, Timekeeper. If your presence in Bereggrad were exposed, the Manus will throw everything they have into capturing you.

伊戈尔：我不希望我和伊万的作战计划节外生枝。所以你必须待在安全的后方。
Igor: I cannot afford to let anything jeopardize our battle plan. You must stay hidden from the enemy until it is safe.

十四行诗：……
Sonetto: ...

伊戈尔：我不否认你的能力与忠诚，十四行诗小姐。但昨天的空袭宣告着别列格勒已经成了真正的战场。
Igor: Ms. Sonetto, I don't question your capability and devotion, but Bereggrad is a potential battlefield. It's too dangerous.

维尔汀：我明白了，在格鲁托夫被击败后，我会在琥珀屋等你。
Vertin: Good point. I'll be sure to return to the Amber Room only after you've defeated Krutov.

伊戈尔：战事很快就会结束。
Igor: It will be done soon.

维尔汀：不久前有士兵找到了我，拜托我送信给他仍在西线的兄弟，他觉得基金会成员的生还概率更高。
Vertin: A soldier came to me earlier today. He seemed to think a Foundation member would have a higher chance of surviving the battle and asked me to deliver a letter to his brother on the Western Front.

维尔汀：你写信了吗，伊戈尔先生？
Vertin: What about you, Mr. Igor? Did you write anything?

对方难以察觉地叹了口气，似乎有些难言之隐。
Igor lets out a sigh so faint it almost goes unnoticed. Clearly he is trying to conceal something.

维尔汀：如果你死在别列格勒，会有人很遗憾的——她原本打算亲手杀死你。
Vertin: I know someone who would be deeply upset were you to die here. She intends to end your life with her own hands.

伊戈尔揉了揉太阳穴，露出一个无可奈何的苦笑。
Igor rubs his temples and gives a helpless smile.

伊戈尔：洛佩拉？她还在基金会？
Igor: Lopera. Does the Foundation still keep her?

维尔汀：当然。芝诺对她的审查还没有结束，她暂时没法作为士兵参加任务。
Vertin: You could say that. She isn't allowed to return to her position as a soldier yet, not until Zeno's review is finished.

伊戈尔点了点头，以示意自己希望听到更多。
Igor nods, signaling he wants to hear more.

维尔汀：她在基金会过得还不错，交到了一些新朋友，也因为出老千为自己惹出了一些麻烦。
Vertin: She's made somewhat of a life for herself at the Foundation. Made friends and got into some trouble.

维尔汀：基金会为她指派了一位“指导员”，以约束她对骰子游戏的沉迷。
Vertin: They've assigned her an instructor to work on her dice game obsession.

伊戈尔：……很有洛佩拉的风格。
Igor: Pera, so typical of her.

维尔汀：作为信息交换，我也希望你解答我的一个疑问。
Vertin: There's something I'd like to know, too.

伊戈尔：请问。
Igor: Ask away.

维尔汀：军长曾邀请我去他家做客，红柳树村的一位夫人招待了我们。
Vertin: Commander Ivan invited me to his home in Tamarovka for a lunch. A lady hosted us.

维尔汀：他说那是他的“母亲”，但……
Vertin: He introduced her as his "mother," but something seemed off.

伊戈尔：她确实是伊万的母亲。
Igor: She is indeed Ivan's mother.

维尔汀：军长替她申请了“暴雨”庇护？
Vertin: Then, did Commander Ivan request shelter for her from the "Storm"?

伊戈尔：在找到这位夫人后，没错。
Igor: Yes, a request made not long after their reunion.

伊戈尔双手环胸，皱起了眉头。
Igor folds his arms across his chest, frowning.

伊戈尔：谁都没有预料到第一场“暴雨”的到来，哪怕是最有经验的占卜师。伊万的母亲和世界上绝大多数人一样，被第一场“暴雨”回溯了。
Igor: Not even the most capable diviners could have predicted the advent of the "Storm." As you suspected, Ivan's mother, like most at that time, was reversed during the first "Storm."

伊戈尔：但伊万找到这位夫人的时候，他和我说，他的“母亲”幸存了下来。他绝不会认错那些深壑般的皱纹，那张慈祥的脸。
Igor: Some time after that, Ivan rediscovered her. He told me that he knew it was her from the wrinkles on her face and her tender smile.

伊戈尔：伊万笃定这就是他的母亲。无论“暴雨”是什么，它都奇迹般地没有夺走他们的家。
Igor: He was certain that, by some miracle, his mother had survived the "Storm" and returned to him.

伊戈尔：身为司辰的你，应该知道这件事有多荒谬。
Igor: An improbable scenario, don't you think, Timekeeper?

维尔汀：……
Vertin: ...

一个似曾相识的巧合。
A familiar coincidence.

维尔汀：终有一天我会弄清楚“真相”，为了所有人，还有……我的母亲。
Vertin: One day, I'll uncover the truth about the "Storm," for everyone's sake, for my mother.

伊戈尔并未回应，而是以深邃的目光注视着草原上的波浪。
Igor doesn't answer. Instead, he fixes his gaze on the rolling waves of grass.

夜幕降临于草原。
Night falls over the steppe.

在嘈杂的马蹄声与呼喊声中，斯捷尔诺娃掀开了行营的门帘。
Amid the chaos of pounding hooves and shouting voices, Sternova lifts the tent flap.

十四行诗：上校，行军要开始了吗？
Sonetto: Colonel Sternova, is the Corps prepared to ride out soon?

斯捷尔诺娃：是的，骑兵军集结完毕，即将开始夜行。
Sternova: Yes. Our forces are assembled. We're ready to go.

斯捷尔诺娃：狮鹫军已经提前启程。三支防空小队已经驻扎在别列格勒，剩下的人正在前往城市北翼的维尔霍罗德岭一带。
Sternova: As for the Gryphons, three of their air defense squads have been stationed in Bereggrad, while the rest are heading to Vysokogorye, the mountain north of the city.

维尔汀：伊戈尔也和自己的军队一起去了？
Vertin: Is Igor marching with his army?

斯捷尔诺娃：这倒没有，行动的总指挥部还设在塞契，他和军长都在营帐里。
Sternova: No, both Igor and Commander Ivan will stay at the command post in the sich.

斯捷尔诺娃：红弩箭中尉提醒我回来检查你是不是还在——听说你很擅长偷偷溜走。
Sternova: I'm here to check on you at Lieutenant Lilya's request. She said you're good at slipping away and making people worry.

身后传来十四行诗的一声憋笑，然后她贴心地帮忙转移了话题。
Sonetto suppresses a laugh before deftly steering the conversation elsewhere.

十四行诗：守护城市的只有三支防空小队吗？
Sonetto: Three squads. That's all the city has for air defense?

斯捷尔诺娃：还有民兵。伊戈尔的人手不够多，骑兵军也不擅长争夺街道，城内的巷战只能依靠民兵了。
Sternova: That and the militia. With our reduced numbers and the danger of street battles, we have to rely on the support of armed citizens.

帐外的躁动愈演愈烈，已经可以从骑兵军的喧哗声中隐约听见军长吼出的号令。
Outside the tent, the agitation has only continued to build. The commander's orders ring out, half-lost in the swelling noise.

斯捷尔诺娃：司辰，如果你现在不离开顿河，那就请一定留在安全的地方。
Sternova: Timekeeper, for your own sake, I suggest you leave the Don. Or at least make sure you bunker down someplace safe.

斯捷尔诺娃：我得走了，战前动员马上开始。
Sternova: I'll take my leave of you now. Commander Ivan is about to rally the troops.

隐秘而热烈的氛围笼罩在夜空之下，血液中崇武的基因正不安地躁动着。
Beneath the night's sky, a hushed yet fervent atmosphere settles in. The soldiers' fighting spirits render them restless.

芝诺骑兵Ⅰ：没想到我竟然能有幸参与一场真正的战争……该死，我的手竟然在发抖！！
Zeno Cavalryman I: To think I get to fight a real war! God! My hands won't stop shaking!

芝诺骑兵Ⅱ：傻子！我警告你，不要对战争抱有浪漫的幻想，它会害死你的！
Zeno Cavalryman II: Keep your head on straight, you idiot, or you'll get yourself killed. There's nothing romantic about war!

芝诺骑兵Ⅱ：年轻的时候，我们连的那几个同乡的战友，老是幻想着打完胜仗后回到顿河，享受同乡的赞美，与家人团聚。
Zeno Cavalryman II: I've fought alongside many soldiers like you. Dreaming of glory, victory, and the praise of our people when we returned home.

芝诺骑兵Ⅱ：他们全死了，只有我活到了今天。我回村里给他们上了坟，祈祷他们在战场上庇佑我。
Zeno Cavalryman II: But I returned alone. The rest died on some godforsaken battlefield, along with their dreams of glory. I visited their graves before I left. Hope their spirits are with me.

芝诺骑兵Ⅰ：……我也回去了。我去见了我喜欢的姑娘。
Zeno Cavalryman I: I-I went home too, to see my girl.

芝诺骑兵Ⅱ：你小子不会是说了什么打赢就回家结婚的鬼话吧？
Zeno Cavalryman II: You didn't promise you were going to marry her after we win the war, did you?

芝诺骑兵Ⅰ：不，我什么也没说……我只是看着她的眼睛，她就明白了我的意思。
Zeno Cavalryman I: No, I ... I didn't say anything at all. I just looked into those beautiful eyes of hers. She understood the rest.

芝诺骑兵Ⅰ：我们都知道，这可能就是最后一面了。
Zeno Cavalryman I: We knew it could be the last time we'd see each other.

芝诺骑兵Ⅱ：……得了，闭嘴吧，军长要说话了！
Zeno Cavalryman II: Alright, that's enough, lover boy. Commander Ivan's about to give his speech.

军长伊万：全军听令，清点人马！
Commander Ivan: Attention all troops! Call the roll!

雄浑而整齐的列阵声震耳欲聋，马儿们迎合着巨响，用蹄子敲响大地。
Strong, unified voices rise from the formations, joined by the thunder of horses stamping the ground.

斯捷尔诺娃：申请返乡的士兵们全员归队，军长。我就知道，骑兵军没有一个懦夫。
Sternova: All soldiers have returned to their posts, sir. I knew there were no cowards in the Corps.

军长伊万：我从没有为这件事担心过。
Commander Ivan: I expected nothing less.

军长伊万：——士兵们，想必你们都已经见识过格鲁托夫和他手下匪军的所作所为。
Commander Ivan: Listen, riders! You've seen the ruin Krutov and his bandits have wrought.

军长伊万：这些黑心肠的懦夫，以为有了偷来的武器，就能肆意践踏哥萨克的家园，杀害哥萨克的亲人。
Commander Ivan: You've seen those black-hearted cowards burn Cossack homes and kill our kin.

芝诺骑兵Ⅰ：那是个大言不惭的小丑！我要把他的脑袋挂在后院的树上！
Zeno Cavalryman I: I'm going to cut off that clown's head and hang it in my backyard!

年轻气盛的声音引来了一阵哄笑，随之而来的是无数扬起的拳头，以及无数赞同的呵声。
The young voice sparks a burst of laughter. Then fists and shouts of approval are thrown into the air.

军长伊万：你们看见了——黑色的军队掠夺了我们的亲人、同胞、粮食、土地，乃至尊严。尸体在河畔堆积成山。
Commander Ivan: You've seen them rob and trample our land, our people, and our dignity!

军长伊万：你们听见了——他们像豺狼一样等待夜色，把孩子们的哭声当成酒后的欢歌。
Commander Ivan: You've heard them laugh as they slaughtered our people and our children wept!

军长伊万：可是，同胞们，他们遇上的是谁？
Commander Ivan: But today their villainy ends. Why, my brothers and sisters?

军长伊万：是我们，是骑兵军，是草原的战马，是喝着顿河的水长大的儿女，是人民最后的仰仗！
Commander Ivan: Because we—the Cavalry Corps, riders of the steppe, children of the Don—will stop them in their tracks!

军长伊万：我们要用一场胜利彻底把他们打垮。为了草原，为了顿河，为了还未出世的孩子们——
Commander Ivan: We will grind them to dust and ride home victorious! For the steppe! For the Don! For Cossack children yet unborn!

军长伊万：扬起马蹄，冲吧！冲垮敌人的阵线，把他们赶出我们的草原！
Commander Ivan: Today, we destroy the enemy and reclaim our home! Forward!

众士兵：冲啊！
Soldiers: Ura!

随着军长的号令，骑兵的阵列开始移动。排头的侦察兵们高高地举起了火把。

这片属于哥萨克人的大地正为它儿女们的士气所颤抖。
This land, the great mother of the Cossacks, trembles beneath the vigor of her sons and daughters.

随着军长的号令，骑兵的阵列开始移动。排头的侦察兵们高高地举起了火把。
At the commander's order, the cavalry formations make their march, the scouts at the front lifting their torches high.

万火归一的士气，让历史的帷幕熊熊燃起。
The flames of glory burn bright, setting the curtain of history ablaze.

12TH-15 指尖的灰烬 / Dust Between Fingers

民兵营收容和治疗了不少在空袭中受伤的市民。用来替代病床的木板和伤者的呼痛塞满了几乎每个房间。
The militia camp is full of makeshift beds, sheltering the many civilians injured in the warlord's raid. The wails of pain echo in every corner.

即便如此，民兵们还是设法留出了一间“单人病房”。
Still, they've managed to set aside one private room.

梅蕾尔：……
Merel: ...

这是梅蕾尔第三十三次从椅子上站起来，绕着屋里唯一的病床检查伤者的情况。
Merel rises from her chair for the thirty-third time, pacing around the only bed in the room to check on the patient again.

尽管伤者的布帛下已经不再溢出“死亡”，她的视线还是无法好好停留在伤者身上。
The patient no longer oozes "death," yet she still can't bring herself to fully look at him.

她的眼神飘忽不定，一会儿落在地下室唯一的窗边，一会儿在椅面的木头纹路上停留。
Her gaze drifts aimlessly, toward the single basement window, the grain of the wooden chair.

她瞧见了布帛下摆边缘染上的巧克力渍。
A smudge of chocolate at the edge of the cloth catches her eye.

这是位没有体温的意识唤醒者，别列格勒漫长的秋季也没法融化一块坚实的巧克力。
This Awakened has an unnaturally low body temperature, so low that even in Bereggrad's long autumn, a piece of chocolate wouldn't melt.

梅蕾尔：……
Merel: ...

有人用了火吗？火能伤到卡戎吗？是否有人把她的朋友像烹制风肉一样架在了火上——
Could someone have used fire? Can fire even hurt Charon? Had her friend been turned over flames like a roast pig?

卡戎：梅蕾尔？
Charon: Merel?

梅蕾尔为自己的联想感到抱歉，但她的思维忍不住继续跳跃。
Merel feels guilty for the association, but in her franticness, her thoughts keep jumping around.

她无法自控地颤抖着，仿佛她自己就是点火的人——
A shiver runs through her, as if her own hand had struck the match to the kindling.

卡戎：……梅蕾尔？
Charon: Merel?

梅蕾尔：啊……啊！
Merel: Ah, oh!

梅蕾尔：卡戎……你醒了！
Merel: Charon, you're awake!

她背过身抹去了眼边的泪水，而后才连忙凑到床边扶起了卡戎。
She turns her face, quickly wiping away a tear, then hurries to Charon's side to help him sit up.

梅蕾尔：你……要喝水吗？你感觉如何？我去给你拿止痛药——
Merel: H-How are you feeling? Are you thirsty? Are you in pain? I'll go get the painkillers.

收尸人迟缓地摇了摇头。
Charon shakes his head slowly.

他不需要水，安瓿瓶中的药液于他而言也与水无异。而绷带下的身体已经顺利地黏合在了一起。
He has no need for water, and the medicine in the ampoule makes no difference to him. Besides, the body beneath his bandages has almost healed.

梅蕾尔：对了，玛尔纱把你的兜帽剪开了。我给你找了块新的布，你感觉怎么样？
Merel: Oh, right, Marsha cut your cloak when she was patching you up. Here, I found a new one for you. Do you like it?

她迫不及待地想要用行动弥补卡戎。
Merel is desperate to do something, anything, for him.

卡戎：你不用为我做任何事，梅蕾尔。
Charon: That won't be needed, Merel.

卡戎：你并不亏欠我。
Charon: You owe nothing.

收尸人用来遮盖“死亡”的衣料轻轻浮动，密闭的室内像是起了一阵风，撞得梅蕾尔有些听不清对方的话。
The cloth covering the "death" beneath shifts as if a breeze has just disturbed the air in the sealed room, muffling Charon's next words.

梅蕾尔：不……我做错了事情的。
Merel: No. I owe you a lot. What I did was wrong.

她用一个简单的“不”否认了对方的话，也否定了自己。
Her "no" is both a denial of him and herself.

梅蕾尔：我是神秘学家，我是第一防线学校培养出来的神秘学家，我还接受过执夜队的训练，我还去南极执行过任务……我可以战斗的。
Merel: I'm an arcanist trained by the SPDM and the vigils. I even fought a little in Antarctica. I can fight, I can. But I didn't.

梅蕾尔：如果我没有跑，他们说不定就没法抓住你——我们原本可以一起逃出来。
Merel: We could've escaped together, if I hadn't run away.

一个可怕的念头抓住了她。
A horrifying thought grips her.

梅蕾尔：一起……我们本来就不该一起的……
Merel: I should never have forced you to take me with you in the first place.

梅蕾尔：如果不是我想从队伍里逃跑，你这时应该还在蒙佩，照料那些从坟墓上开出的花。
Merel: If I hadn't been so desperate to run off from the "XII," you'd still be tending flowers in the graveyard back in Montpaix, instead of ...

卡戎：……
Charon: ...

卡戎：西线的战事已经结束了，死亡终究会将我引向该去的地方。
Charon: Death's call had grown heavy in the East. The path forward was clear.

卡戎：只要格鲁托夫的恶行不得到制止，我本就会顺着河来到这片草原。这与你无关，梅蕾尔。
Charon: So long as Krutov's atrocities grew unchecked. This was inevitable.

收尸人试图安抚这位同行的旅伴。可她像一只出现裂痕的盅，已经难以再盛装惊惧的水。
He tries to comfort her, but she is like a cracked cup, no longer able to contain her emotions.

梅蕾尔：哦……那、那我去把安德烈森牵过来，它一定很想你……
Merel: I-I'll go get Andreas. I'm sure he's missed you a lot.

或许“逃避”本身就是修补伤痕的方式。
Perhaps escape is one way to heal wounds.

收尸人没有制止她。
Charon doesn't stop her.

家里最厚的被褥、上个冬天剩下的柴垛和留在故乡的人组成了掩体，堵住了别列格勒的街头巷尾。
The streets of Bereggrad are barricaded with quilts, leftover firewood, and by the people who have refused to leave the city.

掩体后不时传来妇人忧心忡忡的声音，谈论着被秋天藏起来的命运，也谈起了或在远方、或在城外的家人们。
Women speak in low, anxious voices about what will come of this unusually warm autumn and about family who are now far away.

梅蕾尔：我记得马厩应该就在这附近……
Merel: Hmm. I'm pretty sure the stable's around here.

佳琳娜夫人：小姑娘，小姑娘。
Galina: Young lady. Young lady.

轻柔而苍老的呼唤吸引了梅蕾尔的注意，她左顾右盼看了一会儿，才发现一位坐在街边阴影里的老妇人。
The tender sound of an old voice draws Merel's attention. She turns to find an elderly lady sitting in the shade beside the road.

梅蕾尔：您叫我？
Merel: Um, are you talking to me?

佳琳娜夫人：我在红柳树村见过你，谢尔盖那几个小子说你是他们从河里捞起来的。
Galina: Yes, young lady. You were in Tamarovka, yes? Sergey said you were the "fish" he and his friends caught from the river.

梅蕾尔：多亏了他们，不然我恐怕就要被冲进海里喂鱼了。
Merel: Heh. If it weren't for them, I probably would've wound up in the stomach of some big fish.

梅蕾尔：说起来，骑兵军已经出征了吧？
Merel: Speaking of which, the soldiers have left already, right?

佳琳娜夫人：原来你也不知道。
Galina: Ah, so you don't know either.

老妇人的神色变得有些低落。
The lady's face falls.

佳琳娜夫人：我见你和基金会的人走了，以为你会知道得更清楚些。
Galina: I saw you with those Foundation people. I thought you'd have some news from the inside.

佳琳娜夫人：伊万只是派人劝我不要再待在村里，叫我到别列格勒来，和民兵、骑士还有基金会的人待一块儿，他说这样更安全，等他回来后就带我回芝诺总部。
Galina: *sigh* Ivan sent his men to bring me to Bereggrad. He told me it would be safer there under the protection of the militia and the Foundation. He promised to take me to Zeno headquarters once he's back.

梅蕾尔：伊万……伊万·伊万诺维奇？您是芝诺骑兵军军长的母亲？
Merel: Ivan? Wait, you don't mean Ivan Ivanovich, do you? You're his mother?

佳琳娜夫人：孩子也不会把所有事都告诉母亲。他们总有自己的顾虑，我早就习惯啦。
Galina: I am, dear. Though a child doesn't tell his mother everything, I'm sure he has his reasons. I've grown quite used to it.

佳琳娜夫人：有时他会神秘兮兮地派人把我接去总部。每到这时候我就知道，我好不容易关系熟络起来的邻居、屋前千辛万苦才栽活的红石竹马上就要消失了。
Galina: But, every time he suggests taking me to headquarters, I feel sad for the friends I made in the village and the red carnations in my little garden that soon they'll all vanish.

老妇人带着几分忧郁的坦白，让梅蕾尔心中一个角落蓦地塌陷了下去。
The old lady's sorrowful words make something inside Merel give way.

佳琳娜夫人：小姑娘，我们是不是又要去下一个时代啦？
Galina: Young lady, tell me, are we heading into another era?

梅蕾尔：……！
Merel: ...!

梅蕾尔紧张地捏着腰间的皮带，她歪着头，不敢看佳琳娜夫人的眼睛。
Merel nervously clutches the belt at her waist. She tilts her head, avoiding Ms. Galina's watery eyes.

梅蕾尔：对、对不起，夫人……我不知道您在说什么。
Merel: I'm sorry. I don't know what you're talking about.

佳琳娜夫人：别紧张，小姑娘。突然对你说了这么冒昧的话，要说对不起的该是我才对。
Galina: No, no, I should apologize, young lady, not you. I shouldn't be saying such things.

老妇人温和地捧起了梅蕾尔颤抖的手。
The old lady gently takes Merel's shaking hands in her own.

佳琳娜夫人：我老糊涂了，有时候自己都不知道自己在说什么。
Galina: I'm just an old woman. Sometimes I don't even know what I'm saying myself.

佳琳娜夫人：别闷闷不乐的了，来，年轻人就该笑笑。
Galina: Come now. Lift your chin and smile, young lady.

梅蕾尔：……
Merel: ...

梅蕾尔：夫人，您觉得我们现在的生活是有意义的吗？
Merel: Do you think there's still meaning in this kind of life?

梅蕾尔：即便您知道，您现在所做的一切都会像灰一样被风吹散，凭您自己的努力，无论如何都抓不住。
Merel: It's like I'm trying to catch something, but no matter how hard I try to hold onto it, everything I do, every friendship I make, will just be blown away, like dust.

佳琳娜夫人：哦……
Galina: Well ...

佳琳娜夫人了然地点了点头，扶着梅蕾尔在路边坐下。
Ms. Galina gives the kind of nod only someone with many years behind them can give and guides Merel to sit beside her.

佳琳娜夫人：伊万找到我的时候，我正坐在基辅大街的咖啡馆里，和朋友一起观看“礼炮6号”空间站的发射转播。
Galina: I was in a coffeehouse in Khreshchatyk, Kyiv, watching the Salyut 6 space station launch.

佳琳娜夫人：街边的乐队在为六十周年纪念日的演出排练《节日序曲》，曲子进入呈示部的时候，伊万扒开踢正步的仪仗队列，直接朝我冲了过来。
Galina: There was a marching band outside rehearsing Праздничная увертюра—the Festive Overture. As the piece moved into the exposition, I saw Ivan push aside the drum major and run straight toward me.

佳琳娜夫人：天哪，那一天他差点把咖啡馆的玻璃门撞碎。
Galina: God! He barged into that coffeehouse so fast that he nearly shattered the door.

佳琳娜夫人：然后，他张口就喊：“妈妈！”
Galina: And the first word from his mouth was "Mama!"

佳琳娜夫人短促地笑了一声。
Ms. Galina breaks into a soft laugh.

梅蕾尔：您……那时相信军长说的话吗？
Merel: So, did you believe him? That he was your son?

佳琳娜夫人的笑意在脸上扩大，眼角的皱纹深深挤在了一起。
Her smile grows, and deeper lines appear at the corners of her eyes.

佳琳娜夫人：信？我为此报了三次警，亲爱的！
Galina: Did I believe him? I called the police three times.

佳琳娜夫人：第一次，我说他骚扰，第二次，我觉得他是诈骗。
Galina: The first time, I told them I was being harassed. The second time, that he was a scammer.

梅蕾尔：第三次呢？
Merel: What about the third time?

佳琳娜夫人：第三次，我说他是个危险的时间错乱者，需要伟大祖国的强制收容！
Galina: The third time, I told them Ivan was a lunatic who claimed to be a time-traveler and should be committed to a sanitarium.

佳琳娜夫人：可每一次，都有芝诺或者基金会的老爷把他捞出来。
Galina: But, every time, he was quickly bailed out by Zeno or the Foundation.

佳琳娜夫人：他就在我的公寓楼下蹲着，抱着个破铁皮盒子，说里面是“我”的遗物——那个固执的小混蛋！我可还好好地活着呢。
Galina: He'd loiter around my building, holding a rusty tin box he claimed held "legacy items" I left behind. The nerve of that boy! I was still alive and well!

梅蕾尔：那个盒子里面……都有些什么？
Merel: What was in it? Did you see?

佳琳娜夫人：半块烤曲奇，还有一张我和他的合照，清晰得不像我们那个年代的产物。
Galina: Half a homemade cookie and a photo of the two of us. A photo so clear that it couldn't possibly have been produced in my time.

佳琳娜夫人：他花了半个秋天留在基辅，每天就在各种地方堵我。
Galina: He spent months following me to all sorts of places around Kyiv.

佳琳娜夫人：在公寓楼下，他说他小时候，我最喜欢在窗台上种红石竹，但一盆都没开过花。
Galina: One day, outside my building, he told me how I planted red carnations on the windowsill at his childhood home, but none ever bloomed.

佳琳娜夫人：我去裁缝店，他就说以前只要衣服掉了扣子，就会寄回家给我补，而我总会给他补上两颗有鸢尾花的扣子。
Galina: At the tailor's, he said that whenever a button fell off his clothes, he'd send it home for me to mend, and I would sew two buttons with irises on them.

佳琳娜夫人慢悠悠地说着，叙述的主语逐渐与自己重合，灰蓝的眼眸也慢慢盛满了难以言喻的情绪。
She speaks slowly, the story she tells gradually becoming her own. Her eyes are filled with wordless emotion.

佳琳娜夫人：那些场景我从未经历过，但后来却渐渐变得比冬天的骨头缝要更疼。
Galina: I didn't share those memories, but over time, I grew attached to them all the same. Now, when I think of them, there's a bittersweet pricking in my bones.

她俯身从地上抓起一把灰，放在梅蕾尔摊开的手掌上。
She leans down, gathers a handful of dust from the ground, and lets it fall into Merel's open palm.

佳琳娜夫人：你看，小姑娘，风确实会吹走灰烬。
Galina: You see, young lady. The wind does blow away the dust.

她引着梅蕾尔张开了五指。
She helps Merel spread her fingers.

佳琳娜夫人：你感觉到了什么？
Galina: But focus. Do you feel anything?

梅蕾尔：它……在溜走，在离开我。像一个时代的命中注定。
Merel: I feel it slipping away, leaving me behind, as if it's destined to happen.

佳琳娜夫人：没错，你“感觉”到了。
Galina: Exactly, you felt it.

佳琳娜夫人：咖啡馆里，空间站升空时我心跳的加速；《节日序曲》里小号嘹亮的一瞬带给我的振奋；伊万讲述“母亲”时我胸口里撕裂般的、不属于我的疼痛。
Galina: The excitement as the rocket soared into the sky, the surge of inspiration from the trumpet's cry in the Festive Overture, the heartbreaking ache in my chest as Ivan spoke to me of his mother ...

佳琳娜夫人：那无数个时刻的“感觉”，真切地留了下来。
Galina: These fleeting moments ... I felt them and imprinted them deep into my heart.

梅蕾尔：……
Merel: ...

梅蕾尔：所以……我们现在生活的意义并不在于“留下”什么，而是这个过程中我们“感觉”到了什么吗？
Merel: So then, the meaning of all this isn't in what we leave behind, but in what we feel as we go through it?

佳琳娜夫人：意义是过程本身燃烧的光和热，不是燃烧后能被记住多久的灰烬。
Galina: A spark lives for its light and warmth, not for the ashes it will leave behind. Don't you agree?

佳琳娜夫人：你叫什么名字，孩子？
Galina: What's your name, child?

梅蕾尔：梅蕾尔……梅蕾尔·范德维尔。
Merel: Merel. Merel Van der Veer.

佳琳娜夫人：记住了，梅蕾尔。既然注定要被风吹散，不如在燃烧的时候，烧得更亮些，把光和热，把那些真实的触感——温暖的、疼痛的、刺痒的、芳香的——
Galina: My dear Merel, every one of us is destined to return to dust, so why not feel as deeply as we can while we have the chance? Feel every one of our memories, bitter and sweet.

佳琳娜夫人：狠狠刻进这该死的、混乱的世界里，让这些“感觉”成为你的闪光。哪怕你真的因“暴雨”而消失，也会有属于你的“伊万”铭记你，找到你。
Galina: Savor and cherish each sparkling moment, even if the "Storm" washes you away one day. Because, even if you no longer feel them, someone like my Ivan will.

佳琳娜夫人先站了起来。
She stands.

梅蕾尔：夫人，您要去哪儿？
Merel: Where are you going?

佳琳娜夫人：去看看能帮上什么忙——去给这个时代留下些烙印。
Galina: To see what help I can offer, and to create more memories of this time before it's gone.

梅蕾尔看着她的背影逐渐消失在掩体后，矫健得不像一位古稀老人。
Merel watches her disappear behind a barricade. She moves with the strength of someone half her age.

她低下头，看着自己指间残留的沙砾。
And she looks down at the dust still trapped between her fingers.

12TH-16 怜悯之心 / Mercy

民兵：真看不出来，你挺会驯马的。
Militiaman: You seem to know a thing or two about training horses. Impressive.

民兵：现在城里有些小孩都不乐意往这儿来了，嫌马厩味道大……臭小鬼们，把哥萨克的立身之本都忘了。
Militiaman: Kids these days don't appreciate riding like they used to, complaining that the stables stink. Ungrateful brats! Forgotten the foundation of Cossack life, if you ask me.

梅蕾尔正有一搭没一搭地给旅伴刷着身体。
Merel brushes her companion absentmindedly.

梅蕾尔：它是个好孩子，我认识它的时候它就这么乖了，和我半点关系都没有——
Merel: Oh, it's got nothing to do with me. He's been a good boy since I met him in—

安德烈森：咴。
Andreas: *neigh*

漂亮的旅伴垂下头，在她的颈窝处喷出湿热的鼻息。
Andreas lowers his head, breathing warm, wet air against her neck.

梅蕾尔：——安德烈森！
Merel: Hey! Watch it, Andreas!

梅蕾尔手忙脚乱地用手背擦掉脖子上湿漉漉的水，年轻的民兵哈哈大笑了起来。
Merel scrambles to wipe the damp spot with the back of her hand. The young militiaman laughs.

民兵：它认识你，而且很喜欢你，看来确实是你的马。真可惜，我还以为能看见它在战场上大放异彩的模样。
Militiaman: Hah. Look at him. He's your horse all right. Shame. Thought I'd get to see him shine on the battlefield.

民兵拍了拍安德烈森的脖子，把缰绳递给了梅蕾尔。
He pats Andreas on the neck and hands the reins to Merel.

民兵：趁我回心转意前，牵走它吧。
Militiaman: Well, take him away then, before I change my mind.

梅蕾尔点点头，郑重地接过缰绳。
Merel nods, leading Andreas away with a solemn air.

梅蕾尔：谢谢你一直照顾安德烈森。等事情结束了，我会来帮你收拾马厩的。
Merel: Thanks for taking care of him. I'll come clean up the stable for you once the battle's over.

民兵：行啊，如果到时候咱们都还活着的话。
Militiaman: Sure, if we're both alive by then.

民兵挥了挥手，示意她赶紧走。
The militiaman waves her off.

梅蕾尔：那我就先……
Merel: Alright, see you—

梅蕾尔：……！
Merel: ...!

撞进视野里的黑色军服让呼吸又乱了分寸。
A black uniform crashes into her field of vision.

民兵：还走不走？不走的话安德烈森可就留给——
Militiaman: You leaving, or what? You know I'm serious about taking Andreas to—

只想着开个玩笑的民兵手里被塞进了一截缰绳。
The militiaman had only meant it as a joke, but the reins are thrust into his hands regardless.

梅蕾尔：帮我再照顾一下它！
Merel: I'll be back in a minute!

梅蕾尔屏住了呼吸，把心跳含在嘴里，试图将自己的存在感削弱至最隐微。
Merel holds her breath in an attempt to slow her heartbeat. She can't be spotted.

梅蕾尔：那些黑色的军服……这里难道不是民兵的控制区吗？他们是从哪里潜入的？
Merel: Black uniforms. But how did they manage to sneak past the militia?

一部分细胞啸叫着逃离危险，另一部分理智却控制着双腿走向了他们的来处——尽管每一步都像在沼泽中行军般艰难。
One instinct screams at her to run. Another quieter urge pulls her toward the sound. Each step feels like wading through a swamp.

梅蕾尔：只是重塑之手的小兵而已，没事的……去确认一下城墙是不是缺了口子就好，我不是要去跟踪他们。
Merel: This is fine. You're fine. Just a few Manus soldiers. You don't have to follow them. Just go check if there's a breach in the barricades.

梅蕾尔：他们发现不了我，我就不会和他们打起来。大不了还可以再试试变形术……
Merel: You'll just slip past, easy. No need to fight. And if they spot you, just shapeshift your way out of it.

暗巷尽头的地面像洒过汽水，蒸发后残留的糖浆黏腻无比。
The ground at the end of the alley is tacky, as if soda had spilled and dried there.

每次抬起脚，鞋底都像从黏鼠板上撕下一样，拉出黏腻的丝线。
Her boots lift with a soft sticky sound with every step, like a mouse tenderly moving its way through an old glue trap.

？？？：你在这儿做什么？
???: What are you doing here?

梅蕾尔：——！
Merel: ...!

她猛地朝声音的方向转身，鼻子撞上一块坚硬的钢铁。疼痛令她整张脸都皱了起来。
She spins toward the voice, and her nose collides with something hard as iron. She scrunches her face.

梅蕾尔：天哪……我感觉像是撞上了一堵墙……你也太结实了，玛尔纱。
Merel: Ourgh. Anyone ever tell you you're built like a tank, Marsha?

骑士掏出一块浆洗得发白的旧手帕，接住了梅蕾尔向下淌的鼻血。
The knight pulls a faded, starched handkerchief from her pocket and presses it to Merel's bleeding nose.

玛尔纱：别乱动，血很快就能止住了。
Marsha: Hold still. The bleeding will stop soon.

玛尔纱：看马厩的民兵说你急匆匆地往这里跑，你来这里做什么？你不该陪着卡戎吗？
Marsha: The militiaman at the stable said you went this way in a hurry. What's wrong? Shouldn't you be with Charon?

梅蕾尔：卡戎已经醒了，我本来想通知你的……但有更重要的事！
Merel: I was going to tell you Charon was awake again, but something's happened.

梅蕾尔：我发现了重塑之手的士兵，眨眼就不见了——但他们是从这个巷子里走出去的！
Merel: Manus soldiers—they're here! They were gone in a flash, but I saw them go into that alley with my own eyes!

梅蕾尔：我怕街垒的防线破了口子什么的，想来检查一下。
Merel: That's why I came here, to check if there's something wrong with the fortifications.

玛尔纱：重塑之手？不是普通匪军？
Marsha: You're sure it was the Manus, not bandits?

梅蕾尔：一定是他们，我见过很多次那种黑色的制服，不会认错。
Merel: Absolutely! There's no way I'd mistake those uniforms.

玛尔纱：……还好你没有贸然跟过去，这太危险了。怎么这个时候胆子这么大了？
Marsha: This is bad. Good thing you didn't do anything reckless. But what you were doing is more than dangerous enough, don't you think?

梅蕾尔搓着鼻子，不知怎么回话。骑士拍拍她的脑袋，端详起这一段疑似有重塑士兵活动的小路。
Merel just rubs her nose. Marsha pats her head, then scans the narrow alley Merel pointed out.

玛尔纱：小路尽头的出口是被临时修建的砖墙堵死的，两旁建筑的窗户也好好地锁上……这是一条死路。
Marsha: That alley? But the exit has been sealed off. The militia even made sure the windows on the sides were locked tight. It's a dead end.

脚下碾碎的苔藓与地衣，在城市里确实不常见，但在这久无人迹之处，生命自会倔强地蔓延。
Crushed moss and lichen lie underfoot—a rarity in the city, but in forgotten corners like this, life will find a way.

一小截纱布落在潮湿的墙角。
A scrap of gauze lies in a damp corner.

玛尔纱：……嗯？
Marsha: Hmm?

玛尔纱：蓝黑相间的液体，像是从他们的面具上流下来的。除此之外，还有……血液。
Marsha: This blue-black liquid ... I think I've seen it seeping from their masks before. And there's blood.

玛尔纱：氧化得不算严重，但出血量很大。也许是受伤的重塑之手士兵用过的绷带。
Marsha: Slightly oxidized, but the loss looks heavy. Some of them must be seriously injured.

玛尔纱：可纱布上还残留了一些石炭酸的气味，重塑之手通常不会用它来处理伤口，他们更青睐草药……
Marsha: Hmm, smells like carbolic acid. Unusual for the Manus to use it on wounds. They prefer natural salves.

玛尔纱：只有城里的医院才会用这种消毒剂，也就是说……糟了，重塑之手的人去过医院！
Marsha: You can usually only find disinfectants like this in large medical facilities. Wait. They must have been to one recently!

梅蕾尔：医院？……可他们是怎么混进来的？
Merel: What? But, how?

玛尔纱：重塑之手也许有他们的办法，但现在我们没有时间追究这个。
Marsha: They must have used some trick to get in unnoticed, but there's little point in dwelling on it now.

玛尔纱：我方占领区内有两家大医院，最近的是波克罗夫儿童医院，以及两条街外的神圣第七疗养院。
Marsha: There are two big medical facilities in this district: the nearest one, Pokrov Children's Hospital, and the Sanatorium two streets down from here.

玛尔纱：梅蕾尔，你快去通知民兵和伊戈尔的人往这两个地方加派人手，重塑之手可能还有人留在医院内。
Marsha: Merel, I need you to tell the militia and the Gryphons to send men to both locations. The Manus soldiers you saw could be hiding there.

梅蕾尔：好的，那你呢？
Merel: Understood. What about you?

玛尔纱：我先去查看儿童医院的情况，那里全是孩子，面对敌人根本没有抵抗能力。
Marsha: I'll go check on the kids at the children's hospital. I have to make sure they're safe.

玻璃碎了，风挤着钻进来，把手上打着石膏、头上绑着纱布的孩子们逼到了墙角。
By a shattered window, a nurse shelters a group of children huddled in a corner, their arms in plaster and their heads bandaged.

护士：你们要干什么？！你们已经把药全拿走了，为什么还要揪着几个孩子不放？
Nurse: Why won't you let the children go? You've already taken all the medicine. What more do you want from them?

重塑军官：我耐心地向你解释过，人类，把医院里的神秘学家后代交出来，我要带他们回到自己真正的家庭。
Manus Officer: Tsk. Didn't I already explain this to you, human? I'm bringing the newest generation of arcanists back to their rightful home.

护士：你们需要人质，把我带走就好了！
Nurse: If it's a hostage you want, take me instead!

她大张着双臂，让自己矮瘦的身躯成为盖住这些孩子的伞。她鼻梁上青了一块，嘴角也破了，但眼神依然冷静。
She spreads her slender arms wide behind her, like an umbrella over the children. Her nose is bruised and her lip is split, but her eyes are steady.

重塑军官：你得不到救赎，我们的队伍也不欢迎你，人类。
Manus Officer: You're not worthy of even that, human filth.

军官举起枪，狠狠地砸向她的头，逼她跪下。
The officer lifts his gun and smashes it down on her head in an attempt to force her to her knees.

护士踉跄了一步，但是没有倒下。
The nurse staggers but stays on her feet.

护士：……我教孩子们认字，而不是教他们认命。
Nurse: Then I won't yield to you, and neither will my children!

护士：记住了，我们的骑兵会把你们这些可鄙的侵略者都赶出去！！
Nurse: Soon, the riders will come and crush all you invaders!

军官挥挥手，一个头戴面具的士兵便上前想要拽住一个孩子的胳膊。
The officer signals. A masked soldier moves to grab a child.

护士：别碰他！！
Nurse: Don't you dare touch him!

护士扑了过去，猛地把士兵撞倒在了地上。
The nurse throws herself forward, knocking the soldier down.

一拳，又一拳。哪怕挥舞的拳头已经皮开肉绽，士兵脸上的面具也被打落，她始终没有停下。
She lands blow after blow. Even when her fists are raw and split, even when his mask slips off, she keeps fighting.

她全然没有发现已经上膛的手枪对准了她的后脑勺。
She doesn't see the pistol aimed at the back of her head.

女孩：娜斯佳小姐！
Girl: Nastya!

她在枪响与尖叫声中倒在孩子们身前。
The shot and the children's cries echo as one as she falls to the ground in front of them.

玛尔纱抹掉眼角无用的汗液与泪水，握紧堑壕棒，紧紧地贴在柱子后的阴影里。
Marsha wipes away the useless sweat and tears from the corners of her eyes, grips her trench club, and presses herself into the shadow of a pillar.

玛尔纱：重塑之手真的在这里。
Marsha: Manus Vindictae ... They're really here.

玛尔纱：其他房间都空了，医院的成年人……都不在了，剩下的孩子都聚在这里。
Marsha: No signs of children in other rooms, and the adults are all gone. The Manus must have gathered every child they could find in here.

黑衣士兵分头四散在走廊里，踢开每一扇门，在离开之前抢走哪怕是消毒棉球这样的小东西。
The soldiers in black spread through the hall, kicking down doors and taking even the smallest of supplies.

只有领头军官一个人用枪压制住了几个孩子，正向她的方向走来。
Only one officer stays, his gun still trained on the group of children as he moves toward Marsha's hiding place.

玛尔纱：和在乡村做的事一样，重塑之手一直在掳掠神秘学家，连孩子也不放过……
Marsha: They have been abducting arcanists from the villages, but to think they'd even lay hands on children.

玛尔纱：还有十步。
Marsha: Alright, ten steps away from me.

玛尔纱：五步，四步，三步……
Marsha: Five, four, three ...

“砰——！”
*thud*

骑士从阴影中一步踏出，沉重的钝器在重塑之手军官身上敲出一声干净利落的闷响。
She lands a heavy, blunt strike cleanly on the Manus officer's skull.

男孩：——你、你是谁？！
Boy: Wh-Who are you?

玛尔纱：别怕，我是其他医院过来的医生。我会带你们去安全的地方，但是要听我的话去做，好吗？
Marsha: Don't worry, little ones. I'm a doctor from another hospital. I'll take you to safety. Just stay close to me, and follow my instructions, and we will get through this together, alright?

也许是身上消毒水的味道起了作用，长期和医生待在一起的孩子们停止了怀疑，选择相信这个熟悉的气味。
Maybe it's the smell of disinfectant she carries, or that they're accustomed to following a doctor's instructions, the children trust her quickly.

男孩：唔……
Boy: Alright.

重塑士兵：喂，长官那边怎么没动静了？你和我过去看看。
Manus Soldier: Hey, it's gotten a little quiet, don't you think? We should go check on the boss.

几个在不远处搜查的士兵发现了异常，他们端着武器，朝着长官倒下的方向寻了过来。
The soldiers halt their search, turning with weapons raised toward their fallen officer.

玛尔纱：来吧，快进去！
Marsha: Come. Get inside!

玛尔纱俯下身，推着恐慌的孩子们躲入了楼梯后一间小小的仓库。她最后一个跨入门内，关门时嘈杂的脚步已经靠得很近了。
Marsha crouches down and guides the frightened children into a small storeroom behind the stairs. She slips in last, swiftly closing the door as footsteps approach.

女孩：娜斯佳小姐会没事吗？
Girl: Will Nastya be okay?

玛尔纱没有办法回答这个问题。她脱下披风，盖在孩子们头上。
Marsha has no answer to this question. She takes off her cloak and drapes it over the children's heads.

玛尔纱：我要你们在房间里藏一会儿，之后听见什么声音，都不要出声。像是在玩捉迷藏一样。知道吗？
Marsha: I need you to stay here in this room and be completely quiet no matter what happens. Like a game of hide-and-seek, easy. Can you do that?

女孩：嗯……嗯。
Girl: Y-Yes.

她一边安抚着发抖的孩子们，一边压低呼吸，逐渐平复猛烈的心跳。
She rubs their shoulders through the cloak and slows her breathing to steady her own racing heart.

紧绷的神经逐渐被神秘术抚平，她的注意力得以再次放在眼前的局势上。
Her arcane skill smooths her frayed nerves, returning her focus.

玛尔纱：医院里不知道还有多少敌人，友军应该很快就会来了。在这之前，守住这个房间应该是最好的方法。
Marsha: Merel will bring help soon, but there's no telling how many Manus are here. The best course of action is to hold this room.

重塑士兵：你在房间里吗，长官？
Manus Soldier: Are you in there, sir?

重塑士兵：我们该走了，芝诺和民兵团的人应该快要发现我们在这儿了——长官？！
Manus Soldier: We'd better get going before Zeno and the militia find—huh? Sir? Sir?!

在走廊的阴影中，士兵发现自己的上级俯身倒在地上。
In the shadows, the soldier finds his commander on the floor.

重塑士兵：该死的，他被袭击了！那些小杂种肯定藏在门里！
Manus Soldier: Damn it! Those little brats knocked him out! They can't have gotten far. Search the room!

士兵们意识到了这扇敲不开的门后有他们想要的东西。
It doesn't take long for them to find the sealed door.

重塑士兵：把所有人都叫过来，把门砸开，术士想要的那些小崽子肯定在里面！
Manus Soldier: Door's locked. Call everyone over; we'll smash it open and drag those brats to the ritualist!

玛尔纱：……！
Marsha: ...!

门板承受了一次重击，白蜡木板材碎裂的声音与急躁的呼喊一同响起。
The door shudders under a heavy blow. The sound of cracking white ash wood splinters among frantic shouts.

男孩：姐、姐姐……
Boy: Ms. Doctor, I ... I ...

玛尔纱：嘘……不要大声说话，还记得我刚才是怎么说的吗？有坏人在外面找你们，你们就要像玩捉迷藏一样躲好。
Marsha: Shhh. Keep your voice down. We're playing hide-and-seek, remember? We can't get caught by the baddies.

女孩：可、可是，我害怕……娜斯佳小姐，他们把她……
Girl: B-But I'm scared. And Nastya ...

玛尔纱：嘿，你们听过骑士的故事吗？
Marsha: Hey, have you ever heard any stories about knights?

男孩：我爸爸给我讲过伊利亚的故事，他是一个非常厉害的哥萨克。
Boy: Well, Papa once told me the story of a legendary Cossack called Ilya.

女孩：我还记得，哥哥从莫斯科带回一本书，里面写了十二个骑士的故事，是哥哥念给我听的……
Girl: My brother brought home a book from Moscow. It had twelve knights in it.

玛尔纱：这都是很棒的故事，不过，我要说的是一个你们所有人都从来没有听过的故事。
Marsha: I'm sure both stories are wonderful. But I have a story about knights to share as well, and I bet none of you have ever heard it.

男孩：那是一个什么样的故事？
Boy: What happens in it?

玛尔纱：如果你们能好好待在房间里，不要乱跑，我会回来把故事讲完。答应我，好吗？
Marsha: It's a wonderful story too. But you need to promise me you'll stay in this room, and I'll be back soon to tell you all about it. Deal?

男孩：那……那好。你要出去吗，姐姐？你要去哪里，真的还会回来吗？
Boy: Deal. But where are you going, Ms. Doctor? You'll come back soon, won't you?

玛尔纱：当然会回来，这不是我们已经说好的吗？
Marsha: Of course I will! A promise is a promise.

玛尔纱：你们只要乖乖地……等我回来。
Marsha: Just be good, every one of you, and wait for me here.

在下一次撞击来临的前一刻，她推门而出，又迅速地将身后的门给关上。
Before the next strike comes, she flings the door open and quickly closes it behind her.

在遥远的山间，住着一群神秘的骑士，他们在高山修道院的严寒中过着清苦而隐秘的生活。
In a secluded monastery perched atop a high, snowy mountain lived a group of mysterious knights.

他们的剑是雪原中铸成的秘宝，盔甲上总是覆盖着细密的白雪——
Their swords glittered like gleaming silver when they fought across the frozen fields, their helmets and pauldrons coated in dazzling white frost.

有一年冬天，落雪比以往任何时候都多，郊区的山谷中堆满了能让人深深陷进去的积雪。
One winter, the snow fell heavier than ever before, burying every path in the valley beneath a thick white blanket.

一个小女孩在雪地中迷了路。她走了几乎一整夜，都看不见任何一户人家。
Amidst the snow, a little girl had lost her way. She wandered all night seeking help and shelter, but all she found was the endless white around her.

清晨来临时，她倒在地上，在厚厚的雪中摔出一个小小的坑。
At sunrise, having used every last ounce of her strength, she collapsed, leaving a small hollow in the snow.

在她快要睡着的时候，远远地看见一道白晃晃的影子，比那彻骨的风雪还要洁白……
Just before she froze into a little popsicle, a figure appeared, gleaming even brighter than the pale landscape.

白衣骑士：这是……一个女孩？
Knight in White: What's this? A girl?

迷路的女孩：……
Disoriented Girl: ...

白衣骑士：仁慈的主，我差点以为是一只狐狸，还好过来多看了一眼。
Knight in White: O merciful Lord, I thought it only a stray fox.

白衣骑士：看来下山的行程要取消了——拉住我的手，可怜的孩子，靠到我背上来，我带你到修道院里吃点东西。
Knight in White: It seems my trip to the valley must be delayed. Come, child, lean on my back and hold my hands. I shall take you back to the monastery and get something warm in your belly.

白衣骑士：放心，我绝不会让你死在这儿的。
Knight in White: Worry not. I shan't have you die on me.

……迷路的女孩和骑士一同回到了修道院——那是一座矗立在峭壁上的坚固城堡，就连邪恶的巨龙也不敢接近。
Thanks to this kindhearted knight, the girl survived. To her, the monastery, which nursed her back to health, seemed like an impregnable fortress that even dragons dared not approach.

女孩在这座城堡中长大了，她在漫长的训练后如愿以偿地成为了骑士，就像那个在冬天拯救她的人一样。
After years of training, the little girl grew to become a capable knight, just like her rescuer that winter night.

但是战争……
But then, war ...

玛尔纱：……战争随之而来，她也和其他骑士一样应征走向战场。他们杀死了数不清的敌人，心中的疑虑也越来越多。
Marsha: War found its way to their once secluded fortress, and she, along with her fellow knights, was called to the battlefield, forced to fight. And after taking one life after another, doubts began to grow in their hearts.

玛尔纱：皇帝在宫殿里说，骑士的修行就是磨炼杀人的技艺。但骑士们知道，这场战争将他们的尊严踩在了脚下。
Marsha: They were welcomed to the glamorous halls of the royal palace and praised for their skills, their slaughter. But for these noble knights, those words were not praise. No, they were wounds to their dignity and honor.

玛尔纱：我们挥舞着战旗，手持长剑，却……从来不是……
Marsha: We were fighters, yes. We raised banners and wielded swords, but we weren't ...

从来不是为了杀戮而战。
We were never meant to kill.

梅蕾尔：我听见声音了，就在门后面……玛尔纱？是你在说话吗？
Merel: I hear someone, in that room. Marsha? Is that you?

托勒密：过来，我们一起把门撞开就知道了。
Ptolemy: We'll know once we blast this damn door down. Come on, men!

民兵：三、二、一！用力撞！
Militiaman: Three, two, one, push!

梅蕾尔：天、天呐，玛尔纱……还有这么多孩子——快来人帮帮忙！她伤得好重！
Merel: Oh, oh, God. Marsha, you're hurt. And all these kids ... Hurry, she needs medical help!

12TH-17 骑兵们 / The Cavalry

芝诺骑兵Ⅰ：他们逃跑了——和我一起追上去，谢尔盖！
Zeno Cavalryman I: The enemy's turned tail! Let's ride them down, Sergey!

马背上的骑兵视野开阔，他向东北方的上游位置望去，见到零星逃窜的黑衣士兵。
From horseback, the rider has a clear view. Upstream to the northeast, a few black figures are fleeing.

谢尔盖：什、什么？他们真跑了？
Sergey: Th-They're running? Are you sure?

谢尔盖一边扒拉杂草，一边踮起脚，伸长了脖子朝战友指示的方向张望。
Sergey pushes through the grass and stands on his tiptoes, straining to see where his comrade is pointing.

芝诺骑兵Ⅰ：那当然，我们往前一冲，这些人就和扒在肉上的苍蝇一样逃走了。他们留下了不少东西，我看见有重机枪呢！
Zeno Cavalryman I: Course I am! The moment those cowards saw us coming, they scattered like scared little rabbits! Left their heavy guns and supplies right where they stood!

芝诺骑兵Ⅰ：——诶？你怎么站在地上？你的马去哪儿了？
Zeno Cavalryman I: Wait, where the hell's your horse gone?

只有两条腿能依赖的青年哥萨克急得脖子通红。
Sergey flushes red.

谢尔盖：我只记得，有一道黑影照我脑门上“呼啦”一下飞过来，然后我闭上眼，拿刀往前头一挥。
Sergey: I-I'm not sure. All I know is something flew right at my forehead, and before I could think, I'd swung my shashka at it.

谢尔盖：我、我不知道砍到什么东西，只觉得手上被一道力气使劲一扯，就从马上摔下去了。
Sergey: I don't even know what I hit. Next thing I knew, I was on the ground.

芝诺骑兵Ⅰ：这可是你第一次参加真正的冲锋啊，谢尔盖。
Zeno Cavalryman I: That's one way to end your first charge, Sergey.

芝诺骑兵Ⅰ：前两次出击没有轮到我们连，你还吱哇乱叫呢，现在就自认倒霉吧——我们先走一步，等不了你了。
Zeno Cavalryman I: And to think you were whining about not getting to charge in first. Well, looks like you'll be waiting a while longer, haha.

谢尔盖：等等，你带我一起去吧，萨沙。这场胜仗也得有我的一份吧！
Sergey: Hey, wait. Take me up on your horse. I'm not missing out on our victory.

谢尔盖好不容易穿越草地，刚刚能够到朋友的战马旁。
He presses his way through the tall grass, finally reaching his friend's horse.

山羊胡骑兵：给我站住！
"Goat": Stop right there, all of you!

谢尔盖：——！
Sergey: ...!

迎面又撞出来一匹高头大马，拦住了企图前去追逃的骑兵的去路。马背上的老哥萨克挺直了腰，他说话时，下巴上的胡须也随之剧烈抖动。
A rider on a tall horse cuts off the chase. The old Cossack sits straight, his goatee trembling as he speaks.

山羊胡骑兵：萨沙，谢尔盖，还有所有打前锋的连队，全都给我回来，禁止追击！
"Goat": Sasha, Sergey, all of you, stop your pursuit!

芝诺骑兵Ⅰ：他们没跑多远，长官，都是些步兵，我们能追上他们的。
Zeno Cavalryman I: But they're on foot. We can still catch them if we go now.

山羊胡骑兵：命令就是命令，不给我滚回去，我把你们一个个都带给军长处置！
"Goat": This order comes from the commander himself, so do as I say, or I'll haul your disobedient asses straight to his feet!

芝诺骑兵Ⅰ：行——行吧，听你的！可这到底又是闹哪出呢，尤里？
Zeno Cavalryman I: Fine, fine! But, why? You've fought all kinds of battles, Yuri. What do you think?

山羊胡骑兵：后方主力已经和我们脱节了，如果敌人在前面埋伏，我们一个人都回不来。
"Goat": The main force probably hasn't caught up with us. We would be exposed to a counterattack if we move too far ahead.

芝诺骑兵Ⅰ：他们留下的东西我们也不要吗？
Zeno Cavalryman I: But what about the stuff they left behind? Are we just going to ignore it?

山羊胡骑兵：又不会有乌鸦飞来把它们偷走。
"Goat": For now. It is not like the ravens will swoop down and snatch them up.

芝诺骑兵Ⅰ：那我们在这儿等着，之后再去拿。
Zeno Cavalryman I: Then, shouldn't we just grab their weapons first and then wait?

山羊胡骑兵：不，已经打了一整天了，我们要回营休息，人和马都得喘口气，吃点东西。
"Goat": We have been fighting for hours. Head back to camp. Catch a breath and a bite to eat while you can, for you and your horse.

山羊胡骑兵：之后会有其他团来轮替我们。侦察部队确认前方安全后，他们会去把敌人丢下的东西捞回来。
"Goat": They will rotate another unit in later, after the scouts confirm whether the front is secure. Let them have the bother of retrieving the enemy's supplies.

谢尔盖：可是那些东西是我们——
Sergey: What? But we found them fir—

山羊胡骑兵：你是为了战利品打仗？——你是芝诺的骑兵，还是强盗？！
"Goat": And you think that means they belong to you, huh? Are you a Cossack or a bandit?

谢尔盖被吓得一愣。
Sergey freezes.

谢尔盖：我才不是强盗……
Sergey: I-I'm no bandit.

山羊胡骑兵：那就听好，骑兵军会统一分配战利品，别再惦记这回事。现在所有人都和我一起回营地。
"Goat": Then stop thinking like one. Leave the supplies for now. We must return to camp.

谢尔盖：我听你的，但我也得找到我的马，我不能没有马呀！
Sergey: But my horse is gone. I need to find him first.

山羊胡骑兵：别大喊大叫的，我刚才都看见你的马了，它自己往营地的方向跑了。
"Goat": Stop your whining now, sonny. I spied your horse wandering off toward camp.

谢尔盖：它自己跑回去了？
Sergey: What? He ran back without me?

马和人都歇下了。它们依偎着站在一起，像一队疲惫的士兵。
The men and horses rest. They sit and lean against one another, looking weary.

山羊胡骑兵：来，洗一洗伤口，喝点水。
"Goat": Here, drink this, or use it to clean your wounds.

老哥萨克身上挂着几个军用水壶，穿梭在或坐或躺着的骑兵间，最后来到了一片草坡上。
The old Cossack moves among the riders with several canteens in hand. He makes his way to a grassy slope.

谢尔盖：欸——你踩着我了，尤里叔叔。
Sergey: Hey, watch your step, Uncle Yuri. You nearly stepped on my foot.

谢尔盖在地上翻了个身，老哥萨克将水壶递到年轻的哥萨克面前。
Sergey rolls over on the ground. The old man offers him a canteen.

山羊胡骑兵：你的水，小子。水壶洗了三次，用苇草擦干净的，一点儿泥巴味都没有！
"Goat": Here's yours, sonny. Cleaned it three times myself. Drink up and be grateful.

谢尔盖本能地伸手去接，却忽然吃痛。
Sergey reaches for it and winces.

谢尔盖：——好疼！嘶……刚从马上摔下来还感觉什么事都没有呢……
Sergey: Agh! *gasp* I didn't feel anything after I fell off my horse, but now ...

老骑兵嘴上的山羊胡抖了抖。他坐在谢尔盖身边的草地上。
The old cavalryman's goatee twitches. He takes a seat on the grass beside Sergey.

山羊胡骑兵：第一次打仗的感觉怎么样？
"Goat": Your first taste of battle. How does it settle with you?

老骑兵的语气温和，与之前在战场上呵斥年轻人时大为不同。
His voice is gentle now, not as sharp or scolding as it was on the battlefield.

谢尔盖：……和想象中不太一样。
Sergey: Well, it's not what I imagined.

谢尔盖战斗刚结束时的兴奋劲儿也消失无踪。
Having seen war for the first time, Sergey's naive excitement has faded.

谢尔盖：在马背上我连枪都端不稳，更别提瞄准了。手指一扣，一匣子弹全抖了出去，一根毛都没打着。
Sergey: Everything's different when it's real. Couldn't hold my gun steady. Just fired at everything that moved until my ammo was spent. I'm not even sure I hit anything.

山羊胡骑兵：你的马刀呢？
"Goat": And your shashka, Sergey?

谢尔盖：这和切熏肉一点儿也不一样。好几次我想把刀收回来，他们的骨头都紧紧攥住了我的刀，刀把在我手里直打滑。
Sergey: Yeah, I got a few with it. I thought it would be simple, like cutting a knife through bacon. But I can still feel it—how the blade shook when I struck their ribs, the sound as I pulled it out of their chests.

周围逐渐响起了鼾声，于是谢尔盖把声音放得更轻了些。
Amid the snores of his countrymen, Sergey keeps his voice low.

谢尔盖：尤里叔叔，我觉得我会下地狱。
Sergey: I think I'm going to hell after I die, Uncle Yuri.

老哥萨克把还剩一点儿水的水壶往谢尔盖怀里一扔。
The old Cossack tosses the nearly empty canteen into Sergey's lap.

谢尔盖：哎哟！
Sergey: Oy!

谢尔盖：你这是干嘛呢？！不能生火，我这头发、衣服一晚上都干不了。
Sergey: What did you do that for? I'm drenched.

山羊胡骑兵：让你别瞎想。你是个小男巫，本来就进不了那些传教士嘴里的天堂。
"Goat": Heh! To rinse your thoughts. You're a koldun, remember? You were not allowed into their so-called "heaven" in the first place.

山羊胡骑兵：或者说，你觉得天堂是个什么地方？
"Goat": What would "heaven" look like to you, anyway?

谢尔盖：房梁挂着吃不完的冷熏鲟鱼，姑母每天都会做热乎的鸡肉蘑菇馅饼。
Sergey: Hmm. It'd be a place where smoked sturgeon hangs in rows from the beams, and the air's thick with the smell of my auntie's chicken-and-mushroom pies.

谢尔盖：住在村口的阿司塔霍娃夫人在夜里哼着歌，我和兄弟们假装回家路过，实际上是特意绕的路，只为远远看她一眼。
Sergey: Every night, the beautiful Madam Astakhova would sing. My friends and I used to sneak down to the village square just to catch a glimpse of her.

谢尔盖：马儿在丰沃的草甸上漫步，一条不会泛滥也不会干涸的河穿过草场中央……
Sergey: And our horses would roam free on a lush green steppe, and a river would run through its heart—a river that never floods and never runs dry.

谢尔盖：噢！
Sergey: Oh, isn't that ...?

话说到这儿，饶是谢尔盖这样年轻的灵魂也意识到了“天堂”所在。
He suddenly recognizes what "heaven" he's describing.

山羊胡骑兵：顿河，你的家，我的家。我们永恒的根基和最终的归宿。
"Goat": Yes, the Don steppe. Our eternal homeland. Where we were born, and where we will always belong.

山羊胡骑兵：孩子，把你的刀磨亮，给你的枪上膛——你是“天堂”最忠诚的卫士。除了我们，没有任何人有保护这里的能力和资格。
"Goat": So sharpen your shashka and ready your rifle, faithful guardian of heaven. Only we will, only we can, protect it.

他用力拍了拍谢尔盖的肩膀，把他从沉思中拉了回来。
A firm clap on the shoulder brings him back from his thoughts.

山羊胡骑兵：去，再练练瞄准。回来的时候记得给大家的水壶都灌满。
"Goat": Go for a walk. Practice your aim. And be sure to refill everyone's canteens on your way back.

谢尔盖：好、好……
Sergey: O-Okay.

谢尔盖懵懵懂懂地应了一声，小跑着捡起水壶走向河边。
Mumbling, Sergey takes the canteen and jogs toward the river.

谢尔盖：……要怎样才能像尤里叔叔那样精准呢？
Sergey: Hmm, how can I become a sharpshooter like Uncle Yuri?

谢尔盖举起枪，歪头瞄准。
Sergey lifts his rifle and tilts his head to aim.

下一秒，他就沮丧地放下了枪。
A moment later, he lowers it, frustrated.

谢尔盖：不对，不太对。如果在马背上这么举枪，马会把我甩下来的。
Sergey: Something's wrong with my stance. If I hold the gun like this, the horse will throw me off again.

谢尔盖：斯捷尔诺娃上校又是怎么做的呢？我听说她蝉联了三次芝诺自由骑射大赛的冠军。
Sergey: How does the colonel do it? She won the Zeno Horseback Shooting Contest three times in a row.

谢尔盖又举起了枪，这次他闭上了一只眼，想象自己是草场上最受人瞩目的大明星。
He tries again and closes one eye, picturing himself a star on the steppe.

谢尔盖：把背挺直，谢尔盖！放松你的屁股，在马鞍上坐稳……
Sergey: Sit up straight, Sergey. Relax your buttocks. Stay steady.

谢尔盖：对，就是这样！这样看东西也更清楚……
Sergey: Yeah, that's it! I think I've got it now!

视野里出现了几只蚂蚁。
A few ants crawl across his sights.

谢尔盖：嗯……？
Sergey: Hmm?

谢尔盖揉了揉眼睛。
He rubs his eyes.

这一次，蚂蚁大小的黑点变成了黑衣军人。
They're not ants. They're people.

谢尔盖：**[斯拉夫粗口]！是格鲁托夫的人！
Sergey: Damn! It's Krutov's men!

谢尔盖：敌袭！敌袭！呜——！
Sergey: Enemies! Enemies atta—ugh!

谢尔盖发现自己像是被下了什么咒，舌头变得肿大，堵在了嗓子眼。
Sergey's tongue sticks fast in his mouth.

仪式术士：看看我们发现了什么……一名小巫师。
Ritualist: Hmph. Look what we've found. A koldun.

仪式术士：芝诺真是狂妄。有着如此优秀血脉的神秘学家，竟然只能当饮马小倌？孩子，你拿得动枪吗？
Ritualist: Those arrogant Zeno fools. How could they assign a gifted arcanist like you to such trivial chores? And so young. Can you even use that thing properly?

谢尔盖：呜……呜！！
Sergey: Urh. Urgh!

谢尔盖用行动回答了术士的讥讽。
Sergey answers the ritualist's taunt with action.

没有多余的瞄准动作，他高举步枪，将枪口对准夜空——
Without aiming, he swings his rifle toward the night's sky—

——砰！
*bang*

一阵骚乱从不远处的矮坡后传来。骑兵们屈起拇指含在唇边，让马哨如枪声一般唤醒夜空。
The resting cavalrymen jump to their feet, their whistles cutting through the darkness as they press their thumbs and forefingers to their lips.

仪式术士：该死……！
Ritualist: Curse you!

仪式术士：复苏之母的孩子们！为了祂的愿望与我们闪耀着无尽空白的未来——
Ritualist: Children of the Great Mother of Resurrection, show your devotion to Her grand vision and the imminent brilliant Blank Era!

随着太阳徐徐升起的，还有一束束硝烟。
Gunsmoke filters the light as dawn breaks.

每隔五俄里——这是骑兵军战时电台的最长中继距离——枪声与战马的嘶鸣一同响起，随后冲天的火光便融进了黎明。
At every five versts, the maximum relay distance for cavalry field radios, the steppe is torn by gunfire and the cries of men and horses.

格鲁托夫：骑兵军从较为薄弱的左岸进军，想要断掉我的后路——呵，伊万，还是这样天真，惹人发笑。
Krutov: Thought you'd outflank me from the left bank and cut off my supply line? Ha! Ivan Ivanovich, I almost thought better of you.

格鲁托夫：就算在这个时代，骑兵也是过时的玩意。
Krutov: Even in this era, cavalry have outlived their use.

在他身旁不远处，重塑之手的术士口中念念有词，专心致志地清点昨夜的猎获。
Not far off, a Manus ritualist counts the night's catch, murmuring steadily to herself.

仪式术士：十一、十二……一共十三名神秘学家。遗憾的是，潜入城市的部队已经失去了联络，权且当他们已经死去吧。
Ritualist: Eleven, twelve, thirteen arcanists in total. But the unit we sent into the city has gone silent. Already dead, likely.

术士对昨夜的“收获”十分满意。她点了点头，随后勾了勾手。
The ritualist seems pleased. She nods and curls a finger.

谢尔盖：唔——！
Sergey: Urgh!

仿佛有一条看不见的锁链套上了他的脖子，谢尔盖和其他十二个被俘的神秘学家被无形之力牵扯着向前。
An invisible chain seems to clamp around his neck. Sergey and twelve other captive arcanists are wrenched forward.

渐渐地，谢尔盖感觉一阵极寒从脚踝缠上了他。
A deep cold starts to creep up Sergey's legs.

谢尔盖：嗯？
Sergey: Huh?

他低下头，发觉脚下踩着的泥土竟被无来由的寒意冻得僵硬，粘住了他的鞋子，让他动弹不得。
He looks down. The earth has frozen hard from a chill conjured from thin air. It has glued his boots in place.

仪式术士：……你这是什么意思，将军？
Ritualist: What's the meaning of this, Krutov?

格鲁托夫转了转手腕，面露不悦。
Krutov straightens his cuff, looking annoyed.

格鲁托夫：你没经过我的允许，就擅自派遣重塑之手的士兵潜入城市。这不是我想看到的合作态度。
Krutov: You sent Manus soldiers into Bereggrad without my consent. This is far from the cooperation I was expecting.

仪式术士：我们要明确一点，重塑之手的军队不受你的指挥。
Ritualist: To be absolutely clear, General, Manus Vindictae's soldiers are not under your command.

仪式术士：你执意要调走主力进攻伊戈尔，这已经严重扰乱了我们在顿河的任务。这也不是我们希望看见的合作态度。
Ritualist: You insisted on diverting your main force to attack Igor, seriously disrupting our efforts in the region. Do you call that cooperation?

仪式术士：现在，那帮飞行巫师正在一个接一个地破坏术阵的节点，大规模战争也导致神秘学家大量外逃……
Ritualist: Those atrocious Flying Witches are flitting around destroying our rites as we speak. And I won't even speak of the arcanists we could've recruited if it weren't for the battles you sparked.

格鲁托夫：伊戈尔就躲在骑兵军的塞契里，等我的主力开到，他的生命和他的军队很快就会走到尽头。
Krutov: Hmph, soon, my army will reach the Cavalry Corps's sich. Igor will be forced out of his hole, his pathetic life will end, and his so-called "Legion" will crumble.

格鲁托夫：至于骑兵军则更是不值一提。顿河很快就会完全掌控在我的手中，到那时你们想在顿河做什么都随便。
Krutov: As for the rest of them, they're beneath concern. The Don will soon be under my control; after that, you can do whatever you want here.

格鲁托夫：当然，你们可以选择加快战争的进程。只要你为我打开那条“通道”，把我的人送到塞契……
Krutov: Of course, our victory could be brought about even sooner with that "gateway." Just open it and teleport my men directly into the sich.

仪式术士：呵，您必须经过面具的试炼，才有资格利用那条“通道”，否则我也无法为你开启。
Ritualist: Hmph. It cannot be done until you pass the mask trial and earn the right to enter it.

格鲁托夫：不要再用面具的事来搪塞我。你们不愿意全力援助，就不要指望我会完全配合你们的行动。
Krutov: Ah. These masks—a convenient excuse to undermine me. If you refuse to scratch my back, don't expect me to scratch yours.

格鲁托夫：不借助你的小伎俩，我的军队也有其他进军路线可以选择。
Krutov: My army will achieve victory, with or without your cheap tricks.

仪式术士：悉听尊便，将军。
现在，我可以带这些神秘学家回归复苏之母的怀抱了吗？
Ritualist: Pray, do as you please, General. Now, would you allow me to return these arcanists to Her embrace?

格鲁托夫轻哼一声，挥了挥手。缠住俘虏的冻土开始融化。
Krutov sniffs and waves a hand. The frozen ground holding the prisoners begins to thaw.

格鲁托夫：那些受了重伤没法当劳工的人类也一并处理了。
Krutov: Deal with the injured humans while you're at it. They're no use to me.

仪式术士：当然。
Ritualist: My pleasure.

术士从袖中拿出一个嗅盐瓶子。
The ritualist pulls a bottle of smelling salts from her sleeve.

仪式术士：骤风即至！
Ritualist: Blow till thou brust thy wind!

瓶中的苦味粉末被狂风吹散，送入其他俘虏的鼻腔。
Bitter powder scatters on the wind, swirling and twisting among the captives.

山羊胡骑兵：……
"Goat": ...

血液在呼吸之间沸腾，眼球、心脏、大脑都随着一种独特的旋律跃动了起来。
Blood boils in their veins, their eyes, hearts, and minds tuning in to a strange rhythm.

谢尔盖从未感觉思维如此清晰，一种莫名的兴奋抓住了他的脖子，让他回头看向被俘的长官——
Sergey's thoughts have never been so clear. A wild excitement grabs him by the neck, willing him to turn toward his captured commander.

谢尔盖：呜……！
Sergey: Argh!

惨叫被术士的神秘术堵在了牙关。谢尔盖挣扎着，眼中血管爆开，将他染成了一头浴血的兽。
The ritualist's arcane skill strangles the scream in Sergey's throat. His face contorts, his eyes bulging red as if possessed by some beast.

血色视野中，他的战友、家人，乃至“天堂”一一坠落。
In the red haze, his friends, his family, even his "heaven" all fall away.

12TH-18 灰色马 / The Pale Horse

飞行中队缓缓降下高度，盘旋在草原上空。
The flight unit makes a slow descent as they circle above the plains.

红弩箭：嗯……
Lilya: Hmm.

这支队伍的临时队长正在沉思着。
Their temporary captain remains lost in silent thought.

阿尔法2号：伊戈尔给了我们一个空的节点，中尉，我们是不是被耍了？
Alpha Two: There was nothing at the coordinates Igor sent us. Do you think he lied to us, Lieutenant?

阿尔法2号：阿……阿嚏！
Alpha Two: Achoo!

空中的飞鸟比地上的生灵更快感觉到天气变化，渐起的寒风让其中的不少人都打起了哆嗦。
Those in the air sense the changes in weather before the creatures of the earth do. A sharp wind sends a shiver through their ranks.

红弩箭：天气开始变冷了，说明其他被我们破坏掉的那些节点是对的。他没必要拿这最后的节点耍我们。
Lilya: The weather's gotten colder every time we destroyed a rite. I don't see why he'd only trick us with the last site.

阿尔法2号：那又是怎么回事，术阵不能长着腿跑了吧？
Alpha Two: Then what's going on? You can't move rites around, can you?

红弩箭：我也想不明白——还撑得住吗？先落下去加件衣服吧。
Lilya: Beats me. How's everyone holding up? If it's too cold, we can fly low until we get on some extra layers.

她们就等着队长的这句话，白色制服的飞行员们迫不及待地继续降低高度——
They'd been waiting for those words. The white-clad Witches immediately lower their altitude.

阿尔法2号：咳……
Alpha Two: *cough*

她茫然地张开嘴，颈椎骨片、肌肉组织被血冲了出来。
Her mouth falls open, her eyes wide as blood gushes from the hole blasted in her neck.

飞行器失去控制，在空中打着转，将它再无声息的主人抛下了。
Her aircraft spirals out of control, flinging its lifeless pilot from its back.

红弩箭：阿尔法2号！！
Lilya: Alpha Two!!

红弩箭压低扫把向地面俯冲，在飞行巫师坠落地面前接住了她。
Lilya plunges into a near-vertical dive, catching the falling Witch before she hits the ground.

红弩箭压低扫把向地面俯冲，在飞行巫师坠落地面前接住了她。

红弩箭：哈……
Lilya: Rrrgh!

红弩箭：1号、3号，立刻脱离编队，近地飞行，把那放冷枪的杂种揪出来！
Lilya: Alpha One and Three, break formation and stay low! Flush out the shooter.

红弩箭：4号、5号、6号，都别愣着，忘了你们的训练吗？拉高——飞到那帮耗子的射程死角！
Lilya: Get a grip, the rest of you! Alpha Four, Five, and 6, pull up and stay out of range of those rats on the ground!

阿尔法4号：队长！
Alpha Four: Lieutenant!

阿尔法4号在低空盘旋，尾焰倏地点燃了河畔枯黄的苇草，让藏匿其中的黑色军队暴露无遗。
Alpha Four circles low, igniting the dry riverside reeds and revealing the black-clad forces hidden among them.

阿尔法4号：重塑之手的人已经围过来了！
Alpha Four: The Manus are gaining on us!

红弩箭蹲下身，替她的队员阖上了眼。
Lilya crouches and gently closes her wingmate's eyes.

再扶着红色38站起来时，苇草燃烧的火焰点燃了她的双眼。
She grabs Red 38 and stands, the fire of the burning reeds blazing in her eyes.

红弩箭：那就让他们亲眼看着自己是怎么被撕成碎片的！
Lilya: Good. They can watch as I tear them apart piece by piece!

红弩箭反手擦掉了脸上的血。
She wipes the blood from her cheek.

鲜红、温热，来自一位数分钟前还挠着头发愣的飞行员，一条数分钟前还鲜活着的生命。
Warm and red, from a pilot who had just moments ago been scratching her head in bewilderment. A whole life lost, just like that.

飞行巫师们像秋天的枫叶般盘旋着，落到了红弩箭身边。
The Flying Witches descend, landing nearby.

阿尔法4号：……队长。
Alpha Four: Lieutenant.

红弩箭因疲惫而呆滞的双目闪烁了一下。
A faint light returns to her dull, weary eyes.

红弩箭：你和5号先带她回城里。等一切都结束了，我们会送她回家。
Lilya: Take her to Bereggrad along with Alpha Five. We'll bring her home once the battle's over.

红弩箭：其他人……任务继续，我们必须找到最后一个节点，彻底破坏重塑之手的术式。
Lilya: The rest of us will keep looking for the last rite. Mission's clear: the Manus must be stopped.

红弩箭：天空不是万全的庇护所，时刻注意来自地面的埋伏。我不希望阿尔法2号的悲剧再重演。
Lilya: I want everyone watching for threats from the ground at all times. We can't let this happen again.

红弩箭目送白鸽们再次列队起飞。
She watches as the team forms up and rises again.

红弩箭：……
Lilya: ...

红弩箭：**的[斯拉夫粗口]……
Lilya: Goddammit!

直到那些白色的影子冲进云层，她才长长叹了一口气，猛地蹲了下来，把脸埋进了手里。
Only when they disappear into the clouds does she let out a deep sigh, her back sinking as she buries her face in her hands.

红弩箭：喂，头儿。
Lilya: Hey, Captain.

维尔汀：一切都还好吗，红弩箭？
Vertin: Are you alright, Lilya?

维尔汀：过去的一小时里，我和十四行诗一直在试图和你取得联络。
Vertin: Sonetto and I have been trying to contact you for the past hour.

红弩箭：呼……抱歉，头儿。刚刚我被重塑之手的家伙缠住了。
Lilya: *phew* Sorry, Manus rats kept me busy.

红弩箭：……
Lilya: ...

红弩箭：别列格勒城东南42英里坐标点，飞行中队遭到了重塑之手的伏击，阿尔法2号未能返航。
Lilya: About 42 miles southeast of Bereggrad, my squadron was ambushed by the Manus. Alpha Two didn't make it.

维尔汀：……节哀。
Vertin: My condolences.

悲伤与焦虑的情绪也在此处蔓延。帐外传来夜风般的呜咽，将帐中的沉重又加深了几分。
A heavy grief and anxiety hangs between them, the silence only deepened by the moaning wind outside.

维尔汀：我们也有坏消息。
Vertin: We've got some bad news of our own.

维尔汀：从午夜起，塞契指挥部陆续失去了和前线骑兵部队的联络。
Vertin: Around midnight, the command post lost contact with the frontline cavalry.

维尔汀：同时我们也没有再收到任何来自城里的消息。
Vertin: We haven't heard anything from Bereggrad either.

军长伊万：顿河沿岸燃起了烽火，可能还有幸存者。但需要飞行中队的各位从空中确认情况。
Commander Ivan: Scouts reported flares upriver. There may yet be survivors. A flight unit's eyes would tell us for certain.

红弩箭：我明白了。那城里怎么办？
Lilya: I'm on it. What about the city?

旁听着一切的叛军将领从沙盘边站了起来。
Igor stands up from the sand table.

伊戈尔：配合民兵守城的是我的人，我必须亲自去确认情况。
Igor: My soldiers are responsible for the city's defense. I will go there myself to assess the situation.

斯捷尔诺娃：你答应过要留在塞契，伊戈尔。
Sternova: You promised to stay in the sich, Igor.

伊戈尔：是，可现在前线与城镇同时失联，飞行部队在城郊遇袭，敌军却依然神出鬼没、动向不明。
Igor: A promise I intended to keep. But as you can see, we're struggling on multiple fronts, and our enemy remains hidden.

伊戈尔：在座的各位都知道这意味着什么——临时联军的全线溃败已近在眼前。
Igor: We all know this coalition's collapse is imminent. We must act.

斯捷尔诺娃：……
Sternova: ...

军长没有犹豫多久，率先采取了行动。
After a beat, the commander speaks.

军长伊万：……我去给你选一匹快马。
Commander Ivan: I'll lend you a horse.

伊戈尔：这很有帮助，但我需要的不只是一匹马。
Igor: Appreciated, but I will need more than that.

军长伊万：你还想要什么。
Commander Ivan: What is it?

伊戈尔：这个。
Igor: This.

伊戈尔抬起手，露出神秘术抑制咒文。
Igor reveals the arcanum-suppressing runes on his arm.

军长伊万：呵……总是让人在绝路中做选择，这就是你的策略？
Commander Ivan: Hmph, always offering a devil's bargain. Another clause in that twisted code of yours?

通讯器的噪声停了下来，营帐在一片骇人的沉默中下沉。
The static from the communicator fades, leaving the tent in a dreadful silence.

军长伊万：你又想摆弄你的萤火虫了？
Commander Ivan: Not thinking of playing with your fireflies again, are you?

军长伊万：别列格勒和“那里”不一样，轰炸无法解决这里的问题。有将近十万居民选择留在家里，和别列格勒共进退。
Commander Ivan: Bereggrad is unlike "that battlefield." Tens of thousands have stayed in the city. Raining fire from above will do us no good.

伊戈尔：呵……
Igor: Heh. No!

他低头看向手中的萤火虫罐，里面的光点正上下翻飞着闪烁。
He looks down at the jar in his hand. The fireflies inside flicker and flutter.

伊戈尔：我会在合适的时机与地点打开突破口。相信我，我唯一的目标只有打赢这场战斗。
Igor: I will take action only at the right time and place. Our goals remain the same: to win this battle for everyone.

军长伊万：……
Commander Ivan: ...

军长伊万：斯捷尔诺娃，去替我把马牵来。
Commander Ivan: My horse, Sternova.

斯捷尔诺娃：军长……
Sternova: Commander ...

她没有继续说下去，而是转身离开。
She silences herself, furrows her brow, and leaves.

斯捷尔诺娃走后，军长苦笑一声，用食指关节敲了敲桌面。伊戈尔将手臂摆在伊万指示的地方。
The commander turns to Igor with a wry smile and taps the table with his knuckle. Igor places his arm on the spot.

伊万拔出匕首，以尖端刺破伊戈尔镌有咒文的皮肤。刀尖的神秘术辉光忽明忽灭，如同风中影影绰绰的烛光。
With a drawn dagger, Ivan pricks the rune-inscribed skin. The blade glows with arcane energy, flickering like a candle in a draft.

军长伊万：那匹马是我的老战友，我养了很多年。
Commander Ivan: That horse has carried me for years.

不断渗出的血珠逐渐汇成殷红的溪流，顺着紧绷的肌肉向下流淌。操作匕首的人并未因此有丝毫怜悯。
Blood wells up, flowing over taut muscle. But the hand holding the knife feels no pity.

军长伊万：温顺，但是很勇敢，而且无比忠诚。只要骑手给它下达了指令，它会毫不犹豫地冲向最危险的地方。
Commander Ivan: Steady. Brave. A loyal companion. Give the command, and he will charge into hell.

冰冷的金属已在血中浸得滚烫，帐外已经隐约能听见战马的嘶鸣。
The cold steel warms with blood as the gentle neighing of warhorses reaches their ears.

军长伊万：可它喝不惯草原外边儿的水……记得带它回家。
Commander Ivan: But he's not used to the water beyond the steppe. Make sure you bring him home.

12TH-19 牺牲简报 / Casualty Report

所有人都认得这张苍老的脸，记得是谁带来了炮火，却也知道是谁在保护他们。
They all know this aged face. He is the one who brought the gunfire and the one who now guards them.

守城民兵没有难为伊戈尔，甚至为他指出了留守城内的狮鹫军新的驻扎地。
The militia allows Igor to pass, even guiding him to where the Gryphons are now quartered.

伊戈尔：你还记得在芝诺学到的东西，我感觉很欣慰，托勒密。
Igor: I'm glad to see you still remember Zeno's teachings, Ptolemy.

伊戈尔：面临轰炸威胁时，要让非防空部队的人进入地下……
Igor: When facing a bombardment, we move all vulnerable units under—

让他失了声的除了这彻底的静默外，还有几具被白布收殓着的尸体。
Silence. A row of bodies under white sheets.

他们的眼睛上都放着两颗压住眼皮的方糖。托勒密坐在后面的椅子上，整个人沉在阴霾中。
On each pair of eyes rest two sugar cubes pressing their lids shut. Ptolemy sits behind them, shrouded in a dark shadow.

托勒密：父亲……您来了……
Ptolemy: Father ...

伊戈尔：他们战死在哪儿？
Igor: How did they die?

托勒密双手颤抖，垂着头，试图将表情藏在阴影里。
His son stares at the ground, unwilling to show his face. Only his trembling hands betray his emotion.

狮鹫军士兵：简报已经整理出来了，请您过目……
Gryphon Soldier: Here's a written report. For your review, Admiral.

伊戈尔没有去接那几张染着血的纸。
Igor does not take the bloodied papers.

伊戈尔：让他说。
Igor: I will hear it from him.

伊戈尔：把头抬起来看着我，托勒密。告诉我你作为这次行动的城防指挥官，都做了些什么。
Igor: Raise your head, Ptolemy. Tell me your course of action as the commander of the city operation.

伊戈尔的语气平静，却让在场所有人都不寒而栗。
He speaks calmly, but it sends a chill through the room.

托勒密：是、是……
Ptolemy: Y-Yes.

托勒密：昨日午后四时，我们和民兵团、骑士团一起剿灭了数支潜入城内的重塑之手步兵班。
Ptolemy: Around sixteen hundred hours yesterday, we coordinated with the militia and Cavalry Corps to eliminate several Manus infantry squads that had infiltrated the city.

伊戈尔：这点在昨天的最后一次通讯中已经传达过了。
Igor: You already reported that during our last communication.

伊戈尔：我想知道的是，在通讯被切断后发生了什么。
Igor: And after the signal was jammed?

托勒密：我……
Ptolemy: I ...

托勒密：为了排查通讯故障的原因，我派出了一支……包括了五名神秘学步兵和两名通信兵的临时战术小队，由雅罗斯拉夫·列夫丘克担任队长。
Ptolemy: I dispatched an ad hoc squad to investigate the source of the signal interference. Five arcanist infantry troopers and two technicians. Yaroslav Levchuk was the squad leader.

伊戈尔：除了排障外，你还下达了什么指令？
Igor: What else did you order them to do?

被父亲亲手撕开遮羞布，托勒密感觉自己的脸因羞愧而发烫，头脑的热度却因恐惧降至冰点。
His father has torn away the veil. While shame burns Ptolemy's face, fear freezes his words.

托勒密：我让他们……潜入了林地。
Ptolemy: I-I ordered them to sneak into the forest.

托勒密：我让他们不计代价找到对方指挥官的动向，找到……格鲁托夫。
Ptolemy: To find traces of Krutov at any cost.

托勒密：……
Ptolemy: ...

托勒密：其中六人的尸身由敌军送了回来，保留了完整的尸身。
Ptolemy: And then, six corpses were delivered to the entrance of our base.

伊戈尔：你的大脑被无用的仇恨塞满了，托勒密。再这样下去，我很难将狮鹫军未来的指挥重任托付于你。
Igor: You allowed yourself to be blinded with hatred, Ptolemy. How can I entrust you with the Gryphon Legion if you can't maintain a steady hand?

托勒密：……是，父亲，是我的判断有误。我愿意接受所有惩罚。
Ptolemy: I know, Father. I made a grave mistake. I will accept whatever punishment you see fit.

他顿了顿，残留在眼眶中的疼痛让他罕见地在父亲面前露出了不甘心的神色。
He pauses, the ache in his left eye socket betraying a resentment rarely shown in front of his father.

托勒密：可格鲁托夫——他就躲在那些漆黑的林子里！躲在装甲车后面！
Ptolemy: But Krutov ... I saw him! He was right there, hiding in the woods!

托勒密：我离他很近了，近到我能看到他嘴角浮现着的、令人厌烦的傲慢弧度！看到他在帐篷里用古典乐掩盖着战场轰鸣的做作姿态！
Ptolemy: I was so close I could see that arrogant sneer of his, hear the incessant classical music playing from his tent!

托勒密：您知道他对我……对我们做了什么！！
Ptolemy: You know what he did to me, to us!

托勒密：每当听到他的名字，我都能感觉到那如同乌鸦啄食般的痛……
Ptolemy: Every time I hear that wretched name, my eye aches with unbearable pain.

陌生的天花板，强烈的阵痛，以及失去一半的视野。
A strange ceiling. A sharp, throbbing pain. Half the world has gone dark.

托勒密：……？！！
Ptolemy: ...?!

托勒密：队医！队医没给我打吗啡吗？！
Ptolemy: Agh, ah, medic! Medic! I need morphine!

莫莉德尔：已经用过药了，托勒密。
Moldir: They just gave you some, Ptolemy.

托勒密：莫莉德尔……发生了什么？我们的车队被诡雷给……？
Ptolemy: Moldir, what happened? Did our convoy hit a booby trap?

莫莉德尔：不是诡雷。
Moldir: No, not a booby trap.

莫莉德尔：敌人伪装成平民，藏在必经之路旁的田地里。他们浑身捆满了炼金辉光管，冲向了你乘坐的运兵车。
Moldir: Enemies disguised as civilians were lurking by the farms you passed through. No one expected them to be hiding explosive Blazefuse cylinders beneath their clothes.

托勒密：……我想起来了。我的眼睛什么时候能痊愈？
Ptolemy: Right, right. I remember. My eye ... When will it be healed?

莫莉德尔：……
Moldir: ...

莫莉德尔：左眼视网膜被高温辉光重度灼伤，我会负责你的康复训练。在此之前，你先安心养伤。
Moldir: The retina in your left eye took a severe burn in the explosion. I'll see to it that you recover as much as possible. For now, just rest.

他知道这代表着什么，他未来将不得不换到另一侧持枪。
He understands what this means. He'll have to learn to fire from his other shoulder.

托勒密：格鲁托夫上尉呢？他和我在同一台车上。
Ptolemy: Is Captain Krutov alright? We were in the same car.

莫莉德尔：多亏了你把他及时推下了车，上尉只是受了点脑震荡。
Moldir: He only suffered a mild concussion, thanks to you. I doubt he would have survived if you hadn't pushed him off in time.

莫莉德尔：……你先休息，我去叫队医来给你加药。
Moldir: You should sleep, brother. I'll ask the medic to increase your dosage.

托勒密用力地拽住了她的胳膊。
Ptolemy grips her arm tightly.

托勒密：告诉我，我们胜利了吗？
Ptolemy: Did we win?

莫莉德尔：当然。父亲的战略获得了成功，我们成功摧毁了敌军后方的指挥部，在第四战场上大获全胜。
Moldir: Of course. Father's strategy was effective as always. We destroyed the enemy command post. We took sector four decisively.

托勒密：……那就好。
Ptolemy: Good.

托勒密：你也去休息吧，莫莉。不用叫军医了，我不需要吗啡了。
Ptolemy: You need to rest too, Molly. And don't send for the medic. I don't need morphine anymore.

托勒密：我们从南极离开时，有人试图从你行囊里偷走的文件，我全看过了。
Ptolemy: As we left Antarctica, I saw the documents those traitors tried to steal from your bag.

托勒密：那次刺杀是格鲁托夫的自导自演。他骗过了我们所有人的眼睛，目的是促使基金会通过高危神秘学武器使用许可的审查。
Ptolemy: I learned what Krutov did—staging an assassination on himself, making it look like an enemy ambush—just to pressure the Foundation into approving the use of high-risk arcane weapons!

托勒密：在他的计划中，我是牺牲名单的头号对象——如果不是我“多此一举”地把他推下车，让刺杀者犹豫了片刻的话。
Ptolemy: Killing me was part of his plan all along! I only survived because the assassin hesitated when I tried to save him!

托勒密：父亲，您为什么要瞒着我？
Ptolemy: Father, why did you keep this from me?

伊戈尔：真相只会让你被愤怒冲昏头脑，就像你现在犯下的错误一样。
Igor: Anger would only cloud your judgment, as proved with your actions.

伊戈尔：你会有亲手剜出他的眼睛的机会的，我向你保证。
Igor: You will have your revenge, an eye for an eye. I promise you.

伊戈尔：但现在，你必须记住他们的牺牲和你必须背负的责任。
Igor: But now, you must bear responsibility for your mistakes and honor the sacrifice of your brothers.

伊戈尔：这些人放弃了过往的荣耀，放弃了身份，放弃了存在的证明。他们舍弃了一切，选择了将未来交到我的手上。
Igor: They gave up past glory, identity, and every proof of their existence for us, entrusting the future into my hands.

伊戈尔：离开圣保罗后，我已经说得很清楚了。
Igor: Do you not remember what I told you after leaving São Paulo?

伊戈尔：“不会有更多无意义的牺牲，不会有新的背离。”作为我的代言人之一，你必须比任何人都铭记这一点。
Igor: No more meaningless sacrifices. We don't leave anyone behind. You speak with my voice; you should remember this more than anyone.

托勒密：……
Ptolemy: ...

托勒密：我会的，父亲。
Ptolemy: I will, Father.

托勒密摸了摸眼罩后灼痛的眼睛。他默默地点了点头，试图让自己恢复冷静。
Ptolemy touches the bandage over his burning eye socket and nods, willing himself to remain steady.

伊戈尔：那些噪声是什么？我以为格鲁托夫的袭击已经彻底切断了通讯。
Igor: What's that noise? I thought communications were severed after Krutov's assault.

托勒密：在您抵达的半小时前，我们设法重新架设了信号天线，但只接收到了一段带有敌方信号特征的频率。
Ptolemy: We managed to reestablish a signal. It's been up nearly half an hour, but the only thing it's picked up is some bizarre enemy frequency.

托勒密：情报专员认为那极有可能是某种干扰手段。因此对它设置了屏蔽，然后就变成了这种……噪音。
Ptolemy: The operators think it's some form of interference intended to jam our signals, so they've muted it.

伊戈尔：你是说……来自格鲁托夫军的电台？来自——重塑之手的信号？
Igor: You mean this noise is a signal from Krutov's army, from Manus Vindictae?

托勒密：呃……理论上而言，的确如此。
Ptolemy: Well, in theory, yes.

伊戈尔：接通它，立刻。
Igor: Bring it up and unmute it! Now!

托勒密：是！
Ptolemy: Yes, sir!

他迅速地解除了所有屏蔽干扰的频段，将音量旋钮转至最大。
He cuts all the jamming signals at once and turns the volume to its maximum.

“敌方电台”接通了。背景中，枪林弹雨的声音隐约可闻。
The "enemy radio station" crackles to life. Faint gunfire sounds in the background.

？？？：鹰隼06呼叫鹰巢，鹰隼06呼叫鹰巢。第……四十五次呼叫，收到请回答！
???: Falcon 6 calling the nest. Falcon 6 calling the nest. This is the 45th call. Please respond!

？？？：……接通了？！听得到吗？！有人吗？
???: Huh? What? Is it connected? Command, do you copy?

伊戈尔：是的，我能听到你的声音。
Igor: We read you loud and clear.

伊戈尔：我是狮鹫军总指挥伊戈尔，请汇报。
Igor: This is your commander. Report your status.

12TH-20 最后的防线 / The Last Defense

列夫丘克：太好了，是将军！
Levchuk: Good to hear your voice, Admiral!

托勒密：列夫丘克？！你——你还活着？
Ptolemy: Is that Levchuk? You're still alive?

列夫丘克：没有时间寒暄了，敌方集团军正在向河南岸靠拢，装甲已经开进了红柳树村——
Levchuk: This is urgent. Enemy forces are marching toward the southern bank. Their armored convoy has already reached Tamarovka!

列夫丘克：至少两个装甲师和一个陆军师的兵力，此外还有三个辅助炮兵团。
Levchuk: There are at least two armored divisions and one infantry division, plus three artillery regiments!

伊戈尔：了解，我已收到你的汇报。
Igor: Roger. Good work.

电台的那一侧，对方显然松了一口气，并瘫软在地上。
The man on the other end collapses to the floor with relief.

背景中的枪声隐约变得更清晰——伊戈尔希望那是一种错觉。
The gunfire in the background sharpens. Igor hopes it's just his mind playing tricks on him.

伊戈尔：报告你的位置，上士。我会立刻派人营救你。
Igor: Report your position, Staff Sergeant. A squad will be sent to your rescue immediately.

电台另一侧的人沉默许久，然后笑了一下。
A long silence follows, then a soft laugh.

背景的枪弹声显而易见地变得更近，更令人……恐惧。子弹仿佛掠过了耳边。
The gunfire grows closer, unmistakably so. Bullets seem to be tearing right past the receiver.

伊戈尔：现在情况如何，你是否预留了撤退的道路？
Igor: Have you secured your retreat?

列夫丘克：……
Levchuk: ...

列夫丘克：报告长官，雅罗斯拉夫·列夫丘克顺利完成了任务。
Levchuk: Commander, I—Staff Sergeant Yaroslav Levchuk—have successfully completed my task.

托勒密急不可耐地挤到了送话器跟前。
Ptolemy pushes his way to the speaker.

托勒密：什么意思？你**[狮鹫军粗口]的不准放弃，不准死！我现在就去带你回来！
Ptolemy: What are you saying? Goddammit! Don't you die on me! I'm coming to bring you back right now!

列夫丘克：托勒密，你这臭小子。别再给将军添麻烦了。
Levchuk: Stop causing trouble for the admiral, you hear, Ptolemy?

炮弹声逐渐盖过了上士的声音。
Artillery begins to drown out the staff sergeant's voice.

列夫丘克：我从不后悔成为您麾下的士兵，将军。
Levchuk: It has been a true honor serving under you, sir. I have no regrets.

“嘟——嘟——嘟。”
*beep ... beep ... beep ...*

电台信号在枪声中消失了。
As the gunfire swells, the signal is cut off.

沉重的喘息声也随之消失了。
Along with the heavy breathing of their comrade.

伊戈尔：整备部队，托勒密。除防空炮手外所有人，撤出别列格勒。
Igor: Reorganize the troops, Ptolemy. All units save the anti-air squads are to evacuate from Bereggrad.

托勒密：撤出别列格勒？要退回安全屋吗？
Ptolemy: Evacuate Bereggrad? To where? The safehouse?

伊戈尔：不，向骑兵军塞契集结。
Igor: No, to the Cavalry Corps's sich.

伊戈尔：格鲁托夫从我们这里带走的东西，我们要让他一一吐出来。
Igor: We will make Krutov return everything he stole from us.

狮鹫军带来了最坏的消息。
The Gryphons bring the worst news.

军长咽下了悲痛，让写满牺牲数字的简报消失在炭火中。
The commander swallows his grief and feeds the casualty list to the coals.

塞契沉浸在一片肃穆中时，他已经做出了判断。
In the solemn silence of the sich, he has already made his decision.

军长伊万：红柳树村会是格鲁托夫攻城的关键。
Commander Ivan: Tamarovka is the keystone of Krutov's plan.

军长伊万：一旦失守，城市将直接暴露给一支火力凶猛的神秘学装甲部队。装甲师最依赖的是供给线……需要有人去掐断这条命脉。
Commander Ivan: If it falls, Bereggrad will face a formidable arcanist force with armored vehicles. If only we had cut off their supply lines ...

伊戈尔：我有办法带人从内部奇袭红柳树村。
Igor: The Legion can launch a raid from inside Tamarovka. They won't see it coming.

斯捷尔诺娃：纵使狮鹫军有村内捣毁敌人部队的能力……
Sternova: Even if your Gryphons could strike the enemy undetected ...

参谋长第三次从沙盘的这头踱步到另一头。
The chief of staff paces the length of the sand table for the third time.

斯捷尔诺娃：但谁去阻挡格鲁托夫源源不断的补给线？
Sternova: They won't hold long if Krutov keeps getting supplies and reinforcements. We have to cut them off, but how?

托勒密：我看塞契里还有很多牵马的骑兵，他们能不能——
Ptolemy: I saw plenty of soldiers standing out by their horses. Couldn't they—

斯捷尔诺娃：都是孩子！
Sternova: They're only kids!

斯捷尔诺娃双手砸在了桌上，冲击让用来推演的棋子纷纷移了位。
Sternova slams her hands on the table, scattering the markers.

斯捷尔诺娃：十八岁以上的骑兵第一波出征就派出去了。
Sternova: All the grown men rode out in the first sortie.

斯捷尔诺娃：剩下的都是些为了一口饱饭，谎报年纪混进来的小孩，连握缰的茧都没磨出来，嫩得和刚出壳的潜鸭没两样。
Sternova: Most of them lied about their age, just trying to get a good meal. Their hands haven't even been toughened by the reins yet. They're boys! Not soldiers.

军长伊万：莎宾娜。
Commander Ivan: Sabina.

军长拍了拍她的背，推着她走到了营帐之外。
The commander pats her back and ushers her out of the tent.

少年们披挂着空荡的军服，步枪背带深勒进单薄的肩胛，马刀鞘尾拖拽在未长硬的腿骨旁。
The boys stand in their oversized uniforms, rifle straps digging into their thin shoulders, shashka scabbards dragging against their soft legs.

他们静立如一片削瘦的黑杨林，稚嫩的喉结在绷紧的领口下滚动，却只为塞契带来了沉默。
They stand quietly, their throats working under tight collars.

这种沉默压制住了她的怒火。
Their silence suppresses her anger.

斯捷尔诺娃：你们知道自己在做什么吗？
Sternova: Do you understand what you're facing?

斯捷尔诺娃：跨上战马，离开家乡，然后死在战场上……之后再也回不了家。
Sternova: In all likelihood, you'll die on the battlefield. You'll never see home again.

少年骑兵Ⅰ：您别小看我了！我可是哥萨克，和我的哥哥、姐姐、爸爸、妈妈一样！
Teen Cavalryman I: Don't take me for a kid, ma'am! I'm a Cossack, like my brother, sister, and my parents before me!

少年骑兵Ⅱ：是啊！我身体里流着骑兵的血，这是英雄的血！
Teen Cavalryman II: Ura! The blood of the Cossacks—of heroes—runs through me!

斯捷尔诺娃：……
Sternova: ...

少年骑兵Ⅰ：我们是哥萨克，哥萨克从来不怕上战场。
Teen Cavalryman I: We may be young, but our blood is strong. No Cossack fears the battlefield!

少年骑兵Ⅰ：就算断手断脚也没什么可怕的。家乡的命运得我们来决定！这是必要的牺牲！
Teen Cavalryman I: If it means losing a hand, a leg, or even our lives, we'll do anything, make any sacrifice, to protect our homeland!

伊戈尔：……
Igor: ...

似曾相识的话语撞击在情感的底线上。
Those familiar words strike her deep.

军长伊万：你看见了，伊戈尔。
Commander Ivan: See, Igor?

军长伊万：我会带领这支队伍撵走那些戴面具的疯子。
Commander Ivan: These soldiers will drive those masked lunatics from the steppe.

军长伊万：我要把这片土地还给这些孩子们，把未来交到他们手上——这个时代的顿河，并不由我们来定义。
Commander Ivan: Her future rests with the young. We old-timers have no right to shape this era.

军长红着眼睛，看向这些消瘦的影子。
The commander, eyes red, looks over these thin shadows.

军长伊万：我们会取得胜利。告诉我这一点。
Commander Ivan: Tell me, great riders of the steppe, will victory be ours today?

少年骑兵Ⅰ：我们会取得胜利！
Teen Cavalryman I: Victory will be ours!

少年骑兵Ⅱ：我们会把那些疯子赶出我们的家！
Teen Cavalryman II: We'll drive these madmen from our home!

未变声的呼喊如汛期的顿河浪潮般层层叠叠，凿穿了塞契的每一寸垛口。
Unbroken voices rise like the flow of the Don in spring, crashing into every corner of the sich.

军长回过头，对上叛军首领深沉的目光。
The commander looks back, meeting the heavy gaze of the rebel leader.

军长伊万：伊戈尔，这是我们最后的机会了。
Commander Ivan: Igor, this is our last chance.

他的手在颤抖，周围所有人都看得一清二楚。
His hands are noticeably quivering.

但无人指摘他的战栗。
But no one blames him for it.

12TH-21 将军与他的部下们 / The Admiral and His Men

重型装甲从河道交汇之处的浅滩开进了红柳树村。
Heavy armor rolls into Tamarovka through the river shallows.

履带碾碎了村口石砌的路面，桥边的百年红柳也被装甲行过的热浪持续灼烤，风再吹过时，灰烬纷纷从炭化的枝条上剥离。
Treads grind the village's stone road to dust. The heat from the machines scorches the old willows by the bridge, the following rush of wind peeling the ash from them.

谢尔盖：……
Sergey: ...

谢尔盖和其他神秘学家俘虏正被重塑之手的术士押着向村中走。
Sergey and the other captive arcanists are being marched to the village by the Manus ritualist.

意图反抗的人都和冻土下的腐殖质融为了一体，沉默和温驯现在成了这支俘虏队伍的代名词。
Those who fought now feed the frozen earth. Silence and obedience reign.

俘虏：你又在瞎看什么？
Captive: Hey. What are you looking around for?

借着火炮车队从身边隆隆驶过的机会，年长的俘虏低声斥责起了谢尔盖。
As the guns rumble past, an older captive hisses at Sergey.

尽管术士就紧跟在队列最后，鞭子随时会再一次落在身上，路过姑父家附近时，谢尔盖还是忍不住抻长了脖子。
Despite the ritualist's brandishing of her whip close behind, Sergey strains to look as they pass near his uncle's house.

谢尔盖：我……我是这村里的人。
Sergey: I ... I'm from this village.

俘虏：噢，节哀。
Captive: Oh. I'm sorry.

谢尔盖：嘿……！
Sergey: Hey!

谢尔盖：别急着唱衰，出征前军长让咱们回了趟家，很多人都得到消息往城里去了。他们现在肯定没事。
Sergey: Don't say things like that! I'm sure most of the villagers fled to the city before all this happened.

“——啪！”
*crack*

铭文鞭的钢棱砸进了谢尔盖的脊背，皮肉在重击下绽开。血顺着鞭体凹槽倒流，在古老的铭文上覆了层温热的釉。
She lashes at Sergey's back, tearing flesh. Blood runs down the grooves of the whip, coating the inscriptions in a shimmering scarlet glaze.

仪式术士：别交头接耳。
Ritualist: Keep quiet!

疼痛让谢尔盖吞下了自己的舌头。
The pain renders him silent.

铭文烙下的血痕如奇迹般切断了他与灵性间的通道，让神秘学家捉摸不定的大脑落在了地上，疼痛也因此变得更为明晰。
The blood-stained runes sever his link to pneuma, sending his arcane mind crashing to the ground and intensifying the pain.

年长的神秘学家俘虏搀扶着谢尔盖，将身体压得极低，让他们成为沉默队伍中又一个安静的真空带。
The older arcanist supports him. They bend low together, another silent pocket in the procession.

格鲁托夫从一辆装甲车里走出，皱眉看向这支俘虏队伍。
Krutov steps out from an armored car, a heavy frown on his face.

格鲁托夫：河岸边有些淤泥需要处理，不然会阻碍后续军队抵达村庄的速度。这帮神秘学家里有没有拿得出手的？
Krutov: I need hands to clear the sludge from the riverbank, or it'll slow our advance. Put some of these captured arcanists to work, understand?

仪式术士：恐怕他们帮不上忙，将军。遵您的指令，我暂时没有让他们接受复苏之母的试炼。
Ritualist: It would be my pleasure, General, but I'm afraid they'll be of little use. Per your previous command, I have yet to put them through Her Benevolence's trial.

指腹缓移过金属鞭上的棱槽。在凹陷处形成釉质层的半凝血在纹路上重新漫开。她缓慢而虔诚地抚摸着铭文，像在确认某种受难仪式的接口。
She glides her thumb over the whip's ridges, the coagulating blood smearing over the grain. She touches the inscriptions slowly, reverently, as if to confirm the channeling of some sacred affliction.

仪式术士：为避免节外生枝，我祈求祂降下福祉，让他们不再与灵性谐振。
Ritualist: And to avoid complications, I've prayed for Her blessing to ensure their pneuma remains completely dormant.

格鲁托夫：那你要把他们带去哪里？
Krutov: Then, where on earth are you taking them?

仪式术士：哦……摆弄一些神秘学道具，山楂枯枝、红石竹花、冬青叶，或许再来一些魔鬼手指孢子……
Ritualist: Oh, just a small trip to the wilderness to harvest some hawthorn twigs, red carnations, holly leaves, and, if possible, a few devil's finger mushrooms.

仪式术士：如果只是硬化河道的话，我也可以代劳。
Ritualist: If you need to hasten the march, I could provide you a shortcut by freezing part of the river.

格鲁托夫：你还会这样的神秘术？
Krutov: You know such a skill?

仪式术士：不值一提的小把戏而已。但代价是这片土地三年内长不出一粒麦子。
Ritualist: It's no great feat, really, but it comes at a small price. The soil we stand on will be utterly infertile for three years.

仪式术士：如何？您想要榨干这里的最后一滴血吗？
Ritualist: So? Do you wish to drain the life from this place?

格鲁托夫：无所谓。不过是个活不过冬天的村子。
Krutov: Hmph, as if I'd give a damn about some pitiful village.

格鲁托夫扬了扬下巴，示意术士行动。
Krutov lifts his chin to signal the ritualist to act.

格鲁托夫：被我们灭口的骑兵军还不是全部，等剩下的人反应过来了，一定会集结兵力向车队发起反攻，我们必须在那之前抢占先机。
Krutov: We've already eliminated most of the Zeno cavalry, but their remnants will likely attempt to regroup and make another attack. We must take the battle to them before they get the chance.

格鲁托夫：绞紧河床，把它雕成伊戈尔的坟墓。
Krutov: Let the river freeze, and we will carve it as Igor's tomb!

术士笑着应了声“是”。
She smiles a "yes."

在她将要举起鞭子驱赶俘虏时，空气啸叫着被撕开数道裂口。
As the whip is cracked, the air tears with a shriek.

灰白鸽群在上空划破积云，尾迹拖出一道道猎猎旌旗，风声向大地宣告一曲镇魂歌。
A flight of pointed hats splits the clouds above, their trails streaming like banners.

红弩箭：我看见格鲁托夫了！
Lilya: It's Krutov. I spotted the bastard!

红弩箭下压飞行器，整支飞行队伍在她的带领下应声收拢，如利箭般刺破寂静。
Lilya dips her broomstick, and the formation tightens into a sharp arrow behind her.

红弩箭：打击坐标：桥头枯树三点钟方向。目标视觉确认，全员解除保险栓！
Lilya: To me, Alpha team! Target confirmed at three o'clock from the dead tree at the bridge! Weapons hot!

飞行巫师们纷纷拉下护目镜，鸽群如白色流星般加速掠过战场。
The Flying Witches lower their goggles and dive like white shooting stars over the battlefield.

红弩箭：把他们的车给我炸上天！
Lilya: Let's blow them to hell!

渡鸦-3型火龙燃素燃烧弹从天而降，砸向重塑之手的车队。
Raven-3 Pyrodrake Phlogiston Incendiaries rain down on the Manus forces.

重塑士兵：这是什么——
Manus Soldier: What?

短暂的倒计时结束后，火焰从龙血弹中喷薄而出，精准地从观察口爬进装甲车内。
After a brief pause, flames pour from the firedragons, crawling into the armored cars through their observation ports.

重塑士兵：呃……啊……啊啊！
Manus Soldier: Aah! Ahhhh!

火焰骤然咬住钢铁骨架，漆黑的车体转瞬间被火舌包裹。
The black cage is engulfed in seconds.

火光照亮了拖车俘虏们伤痕累累的脊梁，片刻的愣神后，他们就像被烫伤的狼群一样撞进荒原。
The glow illuminates the bloodied faces of the captives. After a stunned moment, they break for the open land like wolves fleeing a burning forest.

重塑军官：俘虏跑了！
Manus Officer: Captives are getting away.

军官对着俘虏逃向生还与自由的背影连开数枪。
An officer fires at their backs, the whip gashes illuminated by the flames as they make their desperate bid for freedom.

有人扑倒在地，再无声息。也有人踉跄几步后，又坚定地奔向村外。
Some fall, while others stumble on to the outskirts of the village.

格鲁托夫：别把子弹浪费在牲畜身上。
Krutov: Don't waste your bullets.

格鲁托夫抬手制止了戴面具的军官，抬头看向借着云层掩护越行越远的白色流星群。
Krutov raises a hand, stopping the masked officer. He looks up at the white specks fading into the clouds.

格鲁托夫：飞行巫师就一个中队。通知空中部队，把这些苍蝇打下来。
Krutov: There are only a few of these flying pests. Call the air units to take them down.

重塑军官：你其他的作战单位呢？
Manus Officer: Where's the rest of your army?

格鲁托夫抬手指向远处若隐若现的城市轮廓。
Krutov points toward the hazy outline of the city in the distance.

格鲁托夫：按照原计划，向别列格勒进军。
Krutov: They're marching on Bereggrad as we speak.

重塑军官：既然要拿下红柳树村，为什么不集中所有力量？
Manus Officer: If you wanna capture Tamarovka, why not concentrate your forces?

格鲁托夫：我们已经剿灭了半数的骑兵军，等到城市沦陷，芝诺胆小鬼的士气就该崩溃了，他们不会再敢包庇伊戈尔。
Krutov: Over half the Zeno cavalrymen are gone. When my men storm the city, they will crumble at my feet, and Igor will be mine.

重塑军官：呵，但愿一切都会像你说的这样顺利……我该去找我的人了。
Manus Officer: Heh, let's hope everything goes as smoothly as you say. I'll be taking my leave now.

军官转过身，一步踩进了一块松软的虚无里，点点萤火从液化的地面飞出。
The officer turns, his foot sinking into soft, false earth. Fireflies rise from the liquid ground.

重塑军官：这是……？
Manus Officer: What's this?

仪式术士：是死亡女巫的术阵痕迹！快从那里走开！
Ritualist: A Baba Yaga ritual! Step away from it!

格鲁托夫：……！
Krutov: ...!

格鲁托夫：……是你。
Krutov: You ...

伊戈尔：格鲁托夫，好久不见。
Igor: It's been a long time, Krutov.

格鲁托夫：独自前来拜访，这就是你的战术？把自己送进大军的包围中。
Krutov: Charging headfirst, alone, into the wolf's den—your tactical brilliance continues to astound.

格鲁托夫：伊戈尔——我那一如既往目中无人、自大自负的“朋友”。
Krutov: You haven't changed a bit, my friend. Arrogant and ignorant in equal measure.

伊戈尔：独自？不……
Igor: Alone? Heh, I'm afraid not.

伊戈尔：正好，我有些新朋友想要和你打声招呼。
Igor: Meet my new allies.

军长侧首与伊戈尔对视，二者同一时间颔首确认了战术。他翻身上马，对天鸣枪。
He and Commander Ivan share a firm nod.

军长伊万：——行动！
Commander Ivan: Move out!

骏马上的少年们高举马刀，用稚嫩的嗓音呼出出征的决心。
The boys rear their horses, their shashkas and voices raised high to the sky.

以术阵为圆心，骑兵军分头冲向了通向村外的坦途。马蹄掀翻了漆黑的士兵，枪与刀推倒了所有拦路的阻碍。
The cavalry splits. Charging down the clear paths leading out of the village, their guns, blades, and hooves shatter the Manus forces.

格鲁托夫：他们的方向——
Krutov: They're heading to ...

曾跟随近卫团南征北战的人只消片刻就读懂了伊戈尔的战术。
As a former member of the Sentinel Unit, it takes him only a moment to grasp Igor's tactic.

格鲁托夫：他们要去破坏我军的补给线！第三特种连！全力拦住骑兵！
Krutov: They're going to cut us off! Third company, stop those riders at once!

托勒密：狮鹫军——把重塑之手的步兵队拖在这里！
Ptolemy: Gryphons, pin down the Manus infantry!

格鲁托夫：托勒密中尉。
Krutov: Oh, Lieutenant Ptolemy.

格鲁托夫露出一个充满恶意的笑容，仿佛在嘲弄一只不自量力的幼兽。
Krutov smiles a cruel smile, as if mocking a cub that has overestimated its strength.

格鲁托夫：我希望你没有再受神经痛的折磨了。
Krutov: I hope you're not suffering too much from the pain where your eye should be.

托勒密：你这个叛徒——
Ptolemy: F**cking traitor!!

染血的马刀横在了格鲁托夫与托勒密之间。
A bloody shashka cuts through the air.

伊戈尔：退下，托勒密，现在还不到时候。
Igor: Hold back, Ptolemy. It's not time yet.

托勒密：……是，父亲。
Ptolemy: Yes, Father.

托勒密的妥协让格鲁托夫的笑意扩大，他以戏谑的神情在前近卫团军官的自尊上反复踩踏。
Ptolemy's surrender widens Krutov's grin. He treads on the pride of his former squadmate with almost gleeful mockery.

格鲁托夫：父亲最乖巧的孩子，需要父亲的帮助才敢开枪。
Krutov: Oh, what a pitiful boy. Can't even hold his gun steady without Daddy's help.

刀身破开了风，刀尖停留在了格鲁托夫身前三寸。
Another blade stops just three inches from Krutov's chest.

伊戈尔：我知道你很想亲手杀死我，格鲁托夫。
Igor: I know you've been dying to kill me, Krutov.

伊戈尔：现在，我来了，这是你唯一的机会。
Igor: Now's your chance.

12TH-22 顿河悲歌 / Elegy for the Don

见证了哥萨克百年历史的红柳树断了。
The red willow that has watched over the Cossacks for over a century lies fractured.

而本该温厚、坚实的大地在神秘术作用下化作黏稠的泥淖，死死咬住了伊戈尔的双腿。
The ground that should have been firm and warm has turned to a sticky mire, trapping Igor by the legs.

伊戈尔：……
Igor: ...

血顺着肌肉的纹路向下流淌，从死亡女巫处借来的力量为这具混血神秘学家的身体带来了超乎想象的负荷。
Blood courses through his already throbbing veins as the power borrowed from Baba Yaga puts an almost unbearable burden on his mixed-blood arcanist body.

伊戈尔：你的神秘术变强了。
Igor: You've grown stronger.

他如困兽般寸步难行，只能眼睁睁看着敌将的身影一步一步碾近。
Pinned like a hunted beast, he can only watch as the enemy commander approaches.

格鲁托夫：伊戈尔将军。
Krutov: Hm. Admiral Igor.

格鲁托夫在距离伊戈尔几步之遥的地方停下了。
Krutov stops a few paces away.

格鲁托夫：用过那个传送术阵后，你还能喘气，已经是奇迹了吧。
Krutov: Still catching your breath from the teleport ritual?

伊戈尔以沉重的喘息回答了他，但格鲁托夫知道，即使是在最后一刻，他也无法让这头骄傲的老狮子低头求饶。
Igor only glares, his chest heaving. Krutov knows this proud old lion will not plead, not even in his last moments.

格鲁托夫：我会给予你一场仁慈的解脱。
Krutov: Don't worry. I'll soon put you out of your misery.

格鲁托夫：但在这之前，我需要你回答我一个问题……
Krutov: But first, answer me one question.

拇指扳倒击锤，枪口对准伊戈尔的前额。
He cocks his gun, lining it up between Igor's eyes.

格鲁托夫：被困骨骸庭院时，是你救下了我们所有人。
Krutov: Back when we were chained in the Bone Garden, you saved us.

格鲁托夫：你与雅加婆婆——那个象征着死亡与巫术的女巫做了什么交易，才换得一群本该成为奴隶的人重获自由？
Krutov: What deal did you make with Baba Yaga—the old hag of death—to free us from slavery?

格鲁托夫：或者说，你用什么东西——换来了这些力量？这些不该属于一个混血种的力量，甚至让阿尔卡纳都愿意屈尊纡贵，与你做交易。
Krutov: Or rather, what did you trade for those extraordinary powers that even Arcana was willing to bargain for? Powers that don't belong to a mixed-blood like you.

伊戈尔：开枪。
Igor: Just shoot already.

格鲁托夫：事到如今，你还执着于保守当年的秘密吗？看来你早已在死亡与巫术的权柄中迷失了……我的老战友。
Krutov: Still clinging to your secrets? Seems you too have lost yourself to the witchcraft of death, my old comrade.

难以抑制的傲慢与轻蔑蔓延了他的整副面孔。
Scorn and arrogance shadow every inch of Krutov's face.

格鲁托夫：那就把这些东西带进坟墓吧。
Krutov: Fine, then take your secrets to the grave.

格鲁托夫：再见。
Krutov: Farewell.

阳光让他感到刺眼。
A flash of sunlight glints in his eyes.

不……那不是阳光。
No. That's not sunlight.

格鲁托夫：什——
Krutov: What?

格鲁托夫本能地抬头看向光源。
He instinctively looks up toward the light.

炼金辉光管被抛至空中，被激活的活性溶液正向外散发着热烈如恒星的光。
A Blazefuse cylinder is hurtling through the air, its active solution burning like a tiny sun.

“——砰！”
*bang*

隐匿在暗处的独眼狙击手射出了打碎太阳的子弹。
A one-eyed sniper fires, shattering it.

格鲁托夫：啊、啊……啊！！！
Krutov: Ugh! Ah. Aahhh!

滚烫的炼金溶液淋在了半边脸上，肌肉被炙烤的独特香气传入鼻腔后，痛觉才姗姗来迟。
Scalding alchemical fluid splashes over half of Krutov's face, shrieks of pain mingling with the smell of cooking flesh.

托勒密：需要吗啡吗，格鲁托夫上尉？
Ptolemy: Any morphine to ease the pain, Captain?

失去控制的地面再度变得坚实起来，独眼的狮鹫军官放下枪，在父亲双腿即将被永远封入冻土前搀起了他。
Freed from Krutov's incantation, the ground begins to harden again. Ptolemy lowers his gun and pulls his father up before his legs are sealed for good.

两人并肩而立。
They stand side by side.

托勒密：谢谢您，父亲。
Ptolemy: Thank you, Father.

托勒密：如您所言，只有愤怒能让他放下防备——但这太冒险了，这枚子弹应该直接穿过他的心脏！
Ptolemy: Just as you predicted, in his anger, he dropped his guard. But I still think I should've aimed for his heart instead!

伊戈尔：我承诺过，会把亲手复仇的机会留给你。
Igor: An eye for an eye. That was my promise.

他越过托勒密的肩膀，看向昔日的战友。
He glances past Ptolemy's shoulder at the man he once fought beside.

格鲁托夫跪在地上，灼伤的脸埋在手里，烧焦的肉与冰冷的皮质手套粘连在一起。
Krutov kneels, his burned face buried in his hand, the charred skin sticking to his cold leather gloves.

伊戈尔：没有凡人能跨越永恒，格鲁托夫。我早已向你说过这句话。
Igor: No mortal can transcend eternity, Krutov. I already told you this.

伊戈尔：重塑之手的确能赐予人非凡的力量，但那只是一块有毒的诱饵，与他们牵扯过深的人最终都会成为牺牲品。
Igor: The power Manus Vindictae offers is nothing but a poisoned chalice. Drinking it down will only lead to your doom.

格鲁托夫：……不……
Krutov: No ...

格鲁托夫：……我和你不一样，伊戈尔。你太软弱，在追求力量的路上临阵脱逃。
Krutov: I'm no weakling like you, Igor! I won't flinch from the pursuit of strength!

军阀首领的身躯微微颤抖。
His whole body is quivering.

格鲁托夫：我不会犯下和你一样的错误。
Krutov: I won't make the same mistake you did!

托勒密：等等，他手里的是什么？
Ptolemy: Wait, what's he holding?

捂紧面孔的双手与被毁坏的皮肤之间，悄然出现了一件熟悉得令人不安的手形器物。
Between his hands and ruined flesh, a familiar dark mask appears.

格鲁托夫：原谅我的无礼，从此刻起，我将永远赞颂你的美名……
Krutov: Forgive my earlier ignorance, Your Holiness. From this moment on, I will eternally praise Your name.

托勒密：该死的！
Ptolemy: Goddammit!

托勒密对准格鲁托夫扣下扳机，子弹却在靠近目标的那一刻撞上了厚重的冰壳。
Ptolemy fires at Krutov, but the bullet hits a wall of ice before it reaches him.

见子弹无效，托勒密向仍在原地喃喃呓语的受试炼者踏出一步。
Krutov shakes and murmurs to himself as he undergoes the trial. Ptolemy paces forward, readying himself to tear the mask from him.

托勒密：我去打碎他的面具——
Ptolemy: I'll smash that mask to pieces!

伊戈尔：不，退后！
Igor: No, stay back!

伊戈尔警觉地扣住养子肩膀，把他拉到了身后。一道锋利的冰墙切开了托勒密方才站立处的空气。
Igor grabs his shoulder and pulls him back. A sharp wall of ice slices through the air in front of him.

格鲁托夫：……我听见了，这些声音——我早该知道这一切的真相，我早该聆听这些优美的词句……呃——
Krutov: I hear it. I hear Your wise words! I should've listened to you long ago. I should've seen the truth of this world! Argh!

他嘶叫着放下了掩面的手，灼烧的蜡泪从颧骨淌至锁骨——那是熔化的皮肉，随动作拉伸出的琥珀色黏丝。
Krutov lowers his hands, the melted flesh of his face drooping like soft wax in sticky amber threads.

格鲁托夫：哈……哈，复苏之母……
Krutov: Heh. Heh. Mother of Resurrection.

手形的面具捧住了他的双眼。环绕着格鲁托夫的冰冷漩涡不断向外扩张。
With the hand-shaped mask cradling his eyes, a whirlwind of chilling air begins to spread from Krutov.

伊戈尔：寒冷……原来如此。
Igor: This cold, it's ... I see.

伊戈尔：格鲁托夫通过了试炼，重塑之手的术士一定藏在附近，她将偷走的冬天全部交给了格鲁托夫。
Igor: Krutov has passed the mask trial. That Manus ritualist must be hiding nearby. She's given him the power to contain the entire stolen winter on his own.

托勒密：什么？怪不得飞行巫师始终没能彻底摧毁顿河的天候术式，难道从一开始格鲁托夫就是……
Ptolemy: What? So that's why the Flying Witches couldn't fully stop the ritual. Who'd have thought Krutov was ...

伊戈尔拔出骑兵刀，金属在骤然降低的温度中颤抖了一瞬，刀身因寒冷而覆上一层钻石般的霜。
Igor draws his shashka. It trembles in the sudden cold, frost forming in diamonds along its blade.

伊戈尔：通知红弩箭中尉，术阵最后的节点找到了。
Igor: Inform Lieutenant Lilya at once. We've found the final rite.

坚冰如活物般噬咬着众人的手腕，向着躯干蔓延。只有那些因连续射击而滚烫的枪管，仍在寒潮中倔强地蒸腾着白气。
Living ice swirls and bites at their wrists, climbing up their arms to their torsos. Only their red-hot gun barrels are able to fight it off.

托勒密：该死……！这家伙控制不住天候术式了！
Ptolemy: Damn it! This bastard won't hold back the winter any longer!

托勒密：别停下射击！
Ptolemy: Keep shooting!

格鲁托夫单膝跪倒在地，托勒密射出的子弹却尽数被前仆后继的士兵阻拦，目标转眼间被黑色潮水般的重塑士兵淹没。
Manus soldiers, one after another, throw themselves into the gunfire before they reach the collapsed Krutov. Soon, Krutov is submerged in a black tide of soldiers.

托勒密甩开转轮，倒出几枚空弹壳。
Ptolemy swings open his gun cylinder and empties the spent shells.

托勒密：可恶……他跑去了哪里？！
Ptolemy: Damn it! Where'd he run off to?

托勒密：喂，女巫！这些人是哪里来的——外面的骑兵军到底有没有干活？！不会怕死跑了吧——
Ptolemy: Hey, Flying Witch! How'd those Manus scum appear all of a sudden? Did the cavalry all turn tail and run?

红弩箭：闭上你的臭嘴！
Lilya: Shut your trap!

气温骤跌，直逼冰点。她呵出的白雾还未成形便被寒风撕碎，飞行的高度也随着稀薄的空气一寸一寸往下坠。
A flurry of condensation clouds from her mouth. The thinness of the stinging cold air has pulled her lower.

红弩箭加速绕行一圈，撞开几个向着战场中心包围而来的敌人，降落在战场中心。
Lilya runs a circle around the battlefield, knocking aside some straggling enemies, before landing in a small clearing at its center.

红弩箭：敌人已经开始溃退了。骑兵军在追击残余的匪军，但是不知道重塑之手的军队是在哪里消失的。
Lilya: The cavalry are chasing down whatever's left of Krutov's bandits. As for the Manus, I got no clue how they managed to disappear like that.

红弩箭：重塑之手一定布置了自己的传送术阵，飞行中队正在寻找术式地点。
Lilya: Must've used some kind of teleport ritual. The Alphas are looking for it now.

托勒密：刚才还有很多重塑之手的士兵，现在全部消失不见。他们的术阵肯定就在村子里。
Ptolemy: There were a lot of them, so the ritual site must be nearby, probably somewhere in the village.

红弩箭：村里的房屋和居民太多，反而限制了空中的搜查进度。你们应该快点派人去进行地面搜查。
Lilya: If that's the case, the Alphas can't do much—too many buildings. You better have your men do a grid search.

托勒密：不能地毯式轰炸吗？
Ptolemy: How about we carpet-bomb them out?

红弩箭：那打完仗以后他们住哪儿？更何况你的队伍还分散在村里——你的脑子里全是冰碴子？
Lilya: What about the villagers, huh? What about your own men? Is your brain frozen?

伊戈尔：我会派出地面部队的，但他们的速度不如你快，中尉。
Igor: A unit will be dispatched to perform a ground search, but they won't be as fast as you, Lieutenant.

红弩箭一阵语塞，最后她“啧”了一声，跨上了飞行器。
She has no words. After a moment, she clicks her tongue and climbs onto her broom.

红弩箭：按照之前重塑之手补充兵力的方向看，他们的传送术阵也许是在靠南边的位置……嘶，好冷。
Lilya: Based on the direction of their reinforcements, the teleport ritual site must be in the south of the village. Brrrr, freezing my butt off here.

红弩箭：啧，究竟藏在哪里，运走这么多人的神秘术阵，不可能不留下任何痕迹……
Lilya: Mm! Where is the damn thing? A whole army went through it. No way it'd just disappear without a trace.

红弩箭：**[斯拉夫粗口]！
Lilya: Damn it!

镜面反射的光斑让飞行女巫的眼睛反射性眯了起来，红弩箭猛地转了个方向拉高上天，以避免一头栽进某个屋顶。
Lilya squints as a glare from somewhere on the ground almost blinds her. She banks hard, just barely avoiding a roof.

红弩箭借着云层的遮挡避开这晃眼的反光，但那光斑就像长了腿似的，一路改变方向追着她。
She tries to hide in the clouds, but the glare follows her every turn.

红弩箭：到底是什么人这么不分场合，让我找到了迟早要轰炸那**[飞行中队粗口]一顿……
Lilya: I swear, if I catch the ground-duster who dares dazzle me right now, I'll give him a missile to the face.

红弩箭：……
Lilya: ...

红弩箭：轰炸……
Lilya: Missile ... to the face ...

红弩箭：对了——下次拿着望远镜的时候别对天瞎看。
Lilya: And Sergey, if you shine the light off that telescope into my eyes one more time ...

红弩箭：要是反光再晃到我的眼睛，我就用导弹轰你。
Lilya: The last thing you'll see is a missile to the face. Understood?

谢尔盖：好、好吧，我下次一定不会了。
Sergey: Ahh. Understood, Lieutenant.

红弩箭：谢尔盖？！
Lilya: Sergey?!

她戴上护目镜，降下高度，眯起眼睛直视光斑的源头。
She pulls down her goggles, drops lower, and searches for the light's source.

一架残破不堪的望远镜，丢了半边镜筒，让它像个格外严肃的万花筒。
It's a pair of binoculars, half shattered, looking like a sorry children's kaleidoscope.

一个伤痕累累的年轻骑兵，穿着出土文物一般狼狈破烂的芝诺军服。
They're in the hands of a wounded young rider in Zeno uniform, looking just as tattered.

谢尔盖：嘿——中尉——
Sergey: Hey! Lieutenant—!

他努力地蹦跳着吸引她的注意力，像只格外有活力的草原野兔，一只手仍然坚持不懈地指向某个方向。
He waves as he jumps, lively as a grassland hare, one hand pointed.

红弩箭：他在指哪里？——马厩？他想要我看马厩做什么？
Lilya: What's he pointing at? Uhm, the stable? Why?

红弩箭：……马厩后面有什么东西——格鲁托夫？！
Lilya: There something in the stable? Wait! It's got to be Krutov!

在飞行女巫鹰般锐利的眼中，一瘸一拐的格鲁托夫正在术士的搀扶下走进马厩。
She spots a limping Krutov being led into a stable by the ritualist.

红弩箭：我看到了，快躲开，小子！
Lilya: I see them, Sergey! Stay back!

随着爆炸尘埃一同撒向空中的还有被炸开的冰晶。它们迅速上浮，融进了糖霜似的云朵中。
Ice and dust scatter in the explosion.

飞行女巫降落在马厩的废墟边缘。在她落地之前，谢尔盖就已经像鼹鼠一般在马厩的废墟中挖来挖去。
By the time Lilya lands near the ruined stable, Sergey is already digging through the wreckage like a mole.

红弩箭：——离那儿远点！格鲁托夫和重塑的术士可能还被埋在下面。
Lilya: Didn't I tell you to stay away? Krutov and that ritualist could still be alive down there.

谢尔盖：不对……不对呀？
Sergey: No. It can't be. How?

谢尔盖从满地的碎屑中钻出来，拍掉身上的灰尘，飞快地跑到中尉身边。
Sergey climbs out, brushes himself off, and runs to the lieutenant.

谢尔盖：他们不在这下面，这马厩就这么点大的地方，愣是连尸体都没找着。
Sergey: The place is tiny, but I don't see them, not even a trace.

红弩箭：——啧。又让他们跑了。
Lilya: Tsk, they got away again.

红弩箭愤懑地踢开脚边的一小颗蘑菇。
Lilya kicks a small mushroom at her feet in frustration.

红弩箭：有可能是连续的短距离传送术。飞行中队还会往其他方向搜索，可能她们会有所发现吧。
Lilya: Probably used multiple short-range teleport rituals. Damn! Hopefully the Alphas find something elsewhere.

红弩箭：还有，你怎么在这里？
Lilya: So, how did you end up here?

谢尔盖：之后再说吧，中尉，我还活着，这就行了！
Sergey: We can save that for later, Lieutenant. All that matters now is that I'm alive!

谢尔盖：我差点以为自己就交待在这儿了。
Sergey: For a moment, I honestly thought that this would be it for me.

他口齿不清地追问着。
He almost stumbles over his words to get his next question out.

谢尔盖：城里还好吗？军长和其他骑兵军在哪里？
Sergey: How are things in the city? What's happened to Commander Ivan and the rest of the Corps?

谢尔盖：我看匪军和重塑之手的人都跑了，其他人怎么样了？
Sergey: It looks like the bandits and the Manus are gone. What's going on?

谢尔盖：——求你了，给我说说吧，我们到底打赢了吗？
Sergey: Come on, tell me, did we win?

飞行女巫抱着胸，一时之间不知道该从何说起。
Lilya crosses her arms, not knowing where to begin.

她拿出久未启封的酒壶，猛灌了一口。
She takes a long drink from a flask she hasn't opened in a long time.

红弩箭：……呼。
Lilya: *sigh*

冬日回归大地，一阵出奇的寂静也与飘落的雪花一同落下。
Winter returns. And with it, the eerie silence of snow.

谢尔盖：……
Sergey: ...

遥远的声音代替了对战争结局的回答——
A distant sound answers for her.

人们互相呼唤，疲劳的马儿喷着鼻息，远方草场的“沙沙”声与顿河水流清亮的颤音混在一起。
Hollered voices, snorting horses, and the stirring of the long grass all echo on the banks of the shimmering Don.

红弩箭：他们做到了自己能做的……
Lilya: They did what they could.

有的人试图纠正鲜血淋漓的错误，可错误无法被纠正，但仍然可以阻止罪孽继续蔓延。
Some sins can never be redeemed. Yet, it is not too late to keep them from spreading, from taking root again.

——即为自己而战，也为故土而战。
For one's own sake, and for the sake of home and family.

有的人用血肉之躯去对抗钢铁，用肉体堵住施术的术杖。
Bare fists struck steel behemoths; soft flesh warded off fell sorcery.

他们也许不够强大，却也拼命换来了他人的生命得以存续。
Their brittle lives were laid down so that others might be spared.

生者们仰望天空，见证迟来的第一场雪。
And the living lift their eyes as the first snow falls.

时间开始转动，冬天马上就要来了。
Time finds its rightful course once more. Winter has come.

红弩箭：庆幸吧，这一次，是我们赢了。
Lilya: Luckily, we won, for this round, at least.

12TH-23 遥远的路程 / The Long Road Ahead

玛尔纱：我在东线的任务已经结束。在我写下这封信的不久前，别列格勒城及其周边发生了一场我没有预想过的战斗。
Marsha: My mission on the Eastern Front is over, but the battle that took place here has left an indelible impression on me. It still strikes me like lightning.

玛尔纱：刚学会用枪的普通人藏在城市的街垒后，顽强地抵抗着匪军与重塑之手的进攻，最终让别列格勒免于沦陷。
Marsha: In the city of Bereggrad, civilians, barely knowing how to handle a gun, gave their all to defend their homes from bandits and Manus Vindictae.

玛尔纱：屹立不倒的城市为野战部队争取到了施展战术的空间，骑兵军与他们的盟友得以放开手脚，击败敌军主力。
Marsha: Their unyielding defense of the city streets bought crucial tactical space for the Zeno Cavalry Corps and their allies on the field, allowing them to strike the enemy's main force without restraint.

玛尔纱：一部分居民不幸罹难，但更多人在这场战役中生还。他们保卫家乡的英勇事迹将在这片土地上永远流传。
Marsha: Some lost their lives, but many more will live because of their sacrifice. I am certain those names will be remembered on this steppe forever.

玛尔纱：对了，我在这儿见到了卡戎，我猜你也会感到惊讶。可惜，时间仓促，还有太多事无法在信中写完。
Marsha: As an aside, I ran into Charon here—what are the odds of that? It's a shame I don't have time to share more stories with you in just one letter.

玛尔纱：真希望有一天能当面给你讲我在东线的故事。我马上会回基金会总部，亲爱的朋友，同样期待你平安的消息。
Marsha: I hope one day to tell you all about them in person. And don't worry about me, my dear Marianne: I'll soon return to the Foundation headquarters. I look forward to hearing from you.

叶尔莫莱：只有这一封信吗？
Yermolai: That the only letter you want to send?

骑士把匆匆写好的信折好，装进信封，郑重其事地印下了基金会的火漆。
The knight folds her letter, seals it in an envelope, and presses the Foundation's wax seal on it with solemn care.

玛尔纱：我不知道你会到这儿来，没有想到有机会送信过去。
Marsha: I would've written more if I knew you'd be delivering them personally.

玛尔纱：你说你还会回一趟西线，那就拜托你把这封信带回蒙佩。会有人来取的。
Marsha: If you're returning to the Western Front, please bring this letter to Montpaix. Someone there will pick it up.

叶尔莫莱：噢，你是说那个石像鬼。别送蒙佩了，她早就不在那一带活动了。
Yermolai: Ah, you mean that Gargoyle girl, right? She's not hanging around Montpaix anymore.

玛尔纱：你知道她的动向？
Marsha: Huh? Do you know where she went?

叶尔莫莱：不算知道，但在别的地方见过她几次。
Yermolai: Can't say that I do, but I have run into her a few times since.

“猎犬”的表情像是被一阵不存在的冬日寒气挠了一下后背。
Hound looks as though a chill has just run up his spine.

叶尔莫莱：第一次是在卢森堡。当时我正在那儿找一些东西。在我发现她的时候，枪口已经顶上了我的后脑勺。
Yermolai: First time was in Luxembourg. I was out looking for something when she decided to press the muzzle of her gun against the back of my head.

叶尔莫莱：我以为她是来讨债的，毕竟在299高地发生的事情并不愉快。要我说，刻雷乌斯欠她一份包含物质回报的感谢信。
Yermolai: I thought she was still holding a grudge over what happened at Hill 299. I wouldn't blame her. After all, Creius owes her a hell of a lot more than a little thanks.

叶尔莫莱：但她只是想“和‘Ⅻ’小队的人谈谈”。
Yermolai: But turns out she just wanted to have a chat with a member of the "XII."

玛尔纱：你们说了什么？
Marsha: What did you talk about?

叶尔莫莱：大概是立了一些规矩。有时候，她的行动目标会和我们小队重合，这时候就要划分一下界限。
Yermolai: Something about setting rules. Said she doesn't mind helping out when her objectives overlap with ours.

叶尔莫莱：她会为我们提供帮助，条件是我们要向她分享在行动中获知的所有信息。她办事很利索，就是缺乏幽默感。
Yermolai: On the condition that we share with her each and every piece of information we have. Must've been serious, right? Doesn't seem like the kind of person who appreciates a joke.

玛尔纱：可能只是你的幽默感太糟糕了。
Marsha: Maybe just your jokes.

叶尔莫莱：哈。总之，虽然我不知道她的具体动向，但要再找到她一次应该并不困难，尤其是手上还有你给她的信。
Yermolai: Ha, could be. Anyway, I don't know her exact whereabouts, but finding her again shouldn't be too hard. I'm sure she wouldn't wanna miss your letter.

玛尔纱：那么，你怎么会被派到这里来？
Marsha: Thanks. So, why were you sent here?

叶尔莫莱：刻雷乌斯要我来做一些“收尾工作”……啧，什么脏活累活都是我来干了。
Yermolai: Creius wanted me to do some "mopping up." Lucky me, always stuck with the chores.

叶尔莫莱：我得观察骑兵军在战斗结束后的政治倾向有没有异常，确定他们和伊戈尔斩断了联系……啊，还有“乌鸫”。
Yermolai: Watching to see if the Zeno corps here shows any "unusual political tendencies" after the battle. Making sure they've cut contact with Igor. Oh, and Blackbird!

他从怀中拿出一封文书，交给玛尔纱。后者带着一丝犹豫，展开折好的纸张。
He pulls a document from his coat and hands it to Marsha. After a pause, she carefully opens it.

玛尔纱：“梅蕾尔，接到此信后立刻前往顿河地区，隐藏身份秘密调查‘金色饥荒’。刻雷乌斯。11月……10日？”
Marsha: "Merel, head to the Don River region immediately. Cover your tracks and investigate the Golden Famine there. Creius. November ... 10th"?

玛尔纱：这是梅蕾尔逃跑之前的命令，也就是说，她并不是逃亡？
Marsha: That was before Merel's desertion. Then, she didn't run away after all?

叶尔莫莱：这日期当然是假的。你把“乌鸫”的消息传回去之后，刻雷乌斯就在我眼前写了这封“密令”。
Yermolai: Nah, the date's fake. Creius wrote up this "secret order" right in front of me after your report.

叶尔莫莱：我出发的时候，签名上的龙血印章都还没有干透。
Yermolai: The seal on the signature hadn't even dried when I set out.

一些补办的文书工作，也许无伤大雅。
A little paperwork filed after the fact. Should be harmless.

玛尔纱：好吧……你确定这些事应该告诉我吗？
Marsha: I see. Are you sure you should've told me this?

叶尔莫莱的脸色变得很快，他出人意料地沉下脸来。
Yermolai's face darkens unexpectedly.

叶尔莫莱：我们是一个队的队友。
Yermolai: We're on the same team.

叶尔莫莱：之后一定还会有比这更糟的事，如果不能互相照应，我们迟早全都栽沟里，能懂吗？
Yermolai: If we can't trust each other, we'll all end up in the ditch when s**t hits the fan. Know what I mean?

玛尔纱：……我明白你的意思了。梅蕾尔还在休息，要我把她叫来吗？
Marsha: You make a good point. Merel's still resting. Should I call for her now?

梅蕾尔：我……我在这儿。
Merel: I-I'm here.

被一纸“密令”暂时解救的逃兵站在玛尔纱身后，她双手搭住骑士的肩甲，只探出半边脑袋。
The deserter, spared for now by this "secret order," peeks out from behind Marsha with a sheepish look on her face.

叶尔莫莱越过骑士警戒的目光，对躲在后面的梅蕾尔扬了扬下巴。
Yermolai tilts his chin at her.

叶尔莫莱：有保姆照顾你的日子结束了，“乌鸫”。虽然基金会不一定会来找你麻烦，但队内的惩罚可不能少。
Yermolai: Your days of fluttering under a babysitter's wings have come to an end, Blackbird. You may be off the Foundation's hook, but I'm afraid some form of internal punishment within the squad is inevitable.

梅蕾尔：队内惩罚？
Merel: Internal punishment?

梅蕾尔闻言缓缓走出一个后撤步。
Hearing this, Merel takes a slow step back.

叶尔莫莱：还想跑。
Yermolai: Don't think you can get away again.

像抓兔子一样，男人将梅蕾尔从骑士身后揪出来。
Like catching a rabbit, the man pulls Merel out from behind the knight.

梅蕾尔：哎呀——
Merel: Naah!

玛尔纱：喂，你小心点！
Marsha: Hey, go easy on her!

叶尔莫莱：之后她就跟我走了，玛尔纱。刻雷乌斯要我给她打上跟踪药剂。
Yermolai: I'll be keeping tabs on her from now on, Marsha. Even got a tracking serum. Creius's order.

玛尔纱：跟踪药剂？
Marsha: Tracking serum?

叶尔莫莱：不知道哪儿的书呆子们研制的新玩意儿，需要实验样本。正好给这小老鼠打上，以免她再开溜。
Yermolai: Yeah, goof-juice invented by some eggheads. Still in development, actually. Our little runaway will make the perfect lab rat.

梅蕾尔：我不会了，相信我，我一定不会再跑了！我保证！
Merel: I won't run again. Trust me. I swear!

叶尔莫莱：安静点，想让所有人都知道你干了什么吗？还是说想尝一尝苦哑巴药剂？
Yermolai: Keep that voice down. You trying to tell the entire world you're a deserter? Or you looking for a taste of Dumbitter Potion?

梅蕾尔：……不想。
Merel: N-No.

她不情不愿地咬住嘴唇。
She bites her lip.

玛尔纱轻轻拍了拍她的肩膀。
Marsha gives her a light pat on the shoulder.

玛尔纱：别担心，回去的路上我们还会在一起。
Marsha: Relax. I'll be traveling back with you.

安德烈森：咴。
Andreas: *neigh*

梅蕾尔：嗯？
Merel: Huh?

黑色的战马从街道另一侧匆匆跑来，在马儿身旁的是它熟悉的旅伴。
A black warhorse trots over from down the street, his old friend beside him.

卡戎：梅蕾尔，很高兴你选择回到自己的朋友身边，希望你未来的旅途一路平安。
Charon: It is good that you've returned to your friends, Merel. May your journey ahead be a safe one.

卡戎：谢谢你为我提供的援助，玛尔纱，这个过程一定给你带来了很大的痛苦，一直以来我都为此自责……
Charon: And thank you, Marsha. Tending to this broken body must have taken a great toll on you. I am sorry for any pain it caused.

玛尔纱：别往心里去，卡戎，你能恢复就好。我自己会把握使用神秘术的分寸的。
Marsha: Please, don't think of it that way, Charon. I can handle my arcane skills. I'm just relieved that you're back on your feet.

叶尔莫莱：是你，收尸人。知道你也在东线的时候，我很意外。帕拉维扬告诉我，是你隐瞒了梅蕾尔的行踪。
Yermolai: Gotta say, I was surprised to hear you'd made it out this way, gravedigger. Paravyan told me it was you who covered Merel's tracks.

梅蕾尔：等、等等！卡戎和这件事儿没有关系！是我坚持要他这么做的。
Merel: W-Wait! Leave Charon out of this! I asked, I mean, I forced him to help me!

叶尔莫莱：你着什么急？难道你不是为了遵守长官的命令，才要求卡戎为你隐藏行踪的吗？
Yermolai: What's got you so worked up? All you did was follow Creius's orders and cover your tracks, right?

梅蕾尔：呃……是的，不，真的是这样吗？
Merel: Umm, yeah, no, wait, did I?

叶尔莫莱：就是这样。给我记好了，以后不管什么人问你，你都要这么回答。
Yermolai: Yeah, you did, and keep that in mind if anyone asks.

梅蕾尔：好的……好的。
Merel: O-Okay.

一旁的亡者花了很长时间也没有弄明白“Ⅻ”小队的队员们在说什么，最终只好放弃寻找答案。
Charon, struggling to follow the conversation among the "XII" Squad, gives up trying.

卡戎：死亡是平等的，对死亡的恐惧也是平等的。回避死亡是生者的本能，希望你能理解她的行为。
Charon: Life must flee death. It is our most basic instinct. Death is impartial, unstoppable. No creature should be punished for running from its shadow.

叶尔莫莱：我完全理解。放心吧，梅蕾尔不会有事的，保证她平平安安。
Yermolai: Sure, sure. Don't worry. I'll make sure our friend here stays safe and sound.

卡戎：我所期望的莫过于此。那么，再见，各位。
Charon: A small hope in this gray world. Now, there is more work to be done.

玛尔纱：你又要离开了吗，卡戎？
Marsha: You're leaving again, Charon?

梅蕾尔：你可以跟我一起回——
Merel: Why don't you join us at the—

“基金会”三个字卡在她的喉咙里。
"Foundation" catches in her throat.

梅蕾尔：算了。
Merel: N-Never mind.

梅蕾尔：希望以后还能见到你，卡戎。当然，不是在战场上。我不想再看见更多的尸体了。
Merel: I hope I see you again, Charon, though maybe not on another battlefield. I'd be happy to never see another corpse in my life.

梅蕾尔：还有你，安德烈森。
Merel: I'll miss you too, Andreas.

梅蕾尔踮起脚，抱住了安德烈森的脖子，脸颊蹭上粗糙的鬃毛。
Merel stands on tiptoes, wrapping her arms around Andreas's neck, and presses her cheek to his rough mane.

梅蕾尔：再见了，我的朋友们。和你们一起的旅途很愉快……当然，落水的那部分除外。
Merel: Goodbye, friends! I've made so many happy memories with you, well, aside from the drowning.

梅蕾尔：我会一直想念你们的。
Merel: I'll miss you from the bottom of my heart!

安德烈森：咴……
Andreas: Neigh ...

卡戎：希望我们会在更和平的年代相见。
Charon: May our reunion come in a more peaceful time.

亡者轻挽缰绳，与他的马儿一同走出城市。
Leading Andreas by the reins, Charon makes his way out of the city.

他们消失在冬日的草原，赶赴下一场没有终点的苦旅。
They disappear into the winter grassland, returning to the long, hard road they must walk.

12TH-24 启程日 / The Day of Departure

别列格勒万人空巷，所有人都拥抱着挤在街道里。士兵用豪饮纪念胜利，民众用欢歌庆祝幸存。
The streets of Bereggrad are packed. The people hug and laugh, and the soldiers drink and sing to their hard-won victory.

但深埋修道院下，不属于这个时代的建筑依然保持沉默。
But deep below the church, in a room from another age, there is nothing but silence.

维尔汀：……
Vertin: ...

白色大理石椅光滑冷硬，指腹按压在扶手上时，遥远的呼唤似乎又穿越了时间与距离。
The white marble chair is smooth and cold. The touch of a fingertip sends a distant call across time and space.

维尔汀：真的是你吗？
Vertin: Is it really you?

维尔汀：呃……！
Vertin: Ah!

落座瞬间，不属于自己的疼痛穿透了皮肤屏障。
She sits, and a pain prickles through her skin, a pain that is not her own.

维尔汀：你经历了什么？
Vertin: What have you been through?

维尔汀：你在哪儿？
Vertin: Where are you?

不好意思，我想我们的声音有些叨扰到她了。她需要休息。
Shh. We should let her get some rest.

维尔汀：……
Vertin: ...

维尔汀。
Vertin.

维尔汀：……你是谁？
Vertin: Who are you?

我们在不同的命途之上追逐着各自的答案。
We all walk our own paths, seeking our own answers.

但在未来，我们一定会再见的。
But our paths will surely cross again.

？？？：司辰？
???: Timekeeper?

维尔汀：……
Vertin: ...

身体离开大理石椅的瞬间，感知迅速从回忆中抽离，被粗暴地塞回了现实世界。
She gets to her feet, tearing her from those memories and thrusting her back into the real world.

踏入这片纯白中的脚步声，听起来有些谨慎。
The footsteps that follow carry a note of caution.

伊戈尔：看来我终于能进入这片空间了……这里的白色实在有些刺眼。
Igor: This room had always been locked to me, but now ... Tch. It is blindingly white.

维尔汀：……伊戈尔，你来了。
Vertin: Mr. Igor.

伊戈尔：如果我是你，就不会随意坐上这把椅子。
Igor: I wouldn't sit in that chair. Not unless you know it to be necessary.

维尔汀：兀尔德曾在这张椅子上坐过，我也想尝试一下，也许会有所发现。
Vertin: Urd sat here. I wanted to try it myself.

伊戈尔：还有什么新发现吗？
Igor: Find anything useful?

维尔汀：琥珀屋里还有一些遗留的实验资料，给我提供情报的人也许想要得到这些东西。
Vertin: Some documents on the experiment. The person who told me about this room might be interested.

维尔汀：至于兀尔德……我想，最重要的信息已经在我第一次踏入的时候传递完毕了。
Vertin: But if you mean to ask about Urd specifically, I haven't learned anything more than I did on my first visit.

维尔汀：对于在这间屋子里发生的事，你知道多少？那些在兀尔德身上做实验的人——他们要从她身上得到什么？
Vertin: You were there. What do you know about the experiments in this room? What did they want from her?

理智被挤压，语气随之不知不觉间加快，对答案的迫切渴望逐渐在头脑中占了上风。
Her usually reasoned words come quickly, driven by her hunger for answers.

维尔汀：你们对她究竟做了什么？
Vertin: What did you do to her?

伊戈尔：鸽子屋对兀尔德做了什么，我想你的心里已经得出了答案。
Igor: The things the Pax House did to Urd ... I'm sure you've pieced it together somehow.

伊戈尔：第二次“暴雨”后，基金会建立了“暴雨”应急系统。
Igor: After the second "Storm," the Foundation led an effort to build an emergency response system.

伊戈尔：但两次时代的消失和对重塑之手的无知让高层意识到，我们无法靠自己结束“暴雨”。
Igor: But after Manus Vindictae reared their head and in the wake of the vanishing of two eras, we realized no system could stop the "Storm."

伊戈尔：我们需要兀尔德。
Igor: We needed Urd.

维尔汀：你们找到过她，却发现她已经成了另一个人。一个调查记者，或者是一个无国界医生，都不是你们需要的。
Vertin: And you tracked her down, only to find she'd become someone else, an investigative journalist, a humanitarian doctor, anything but the identity you were hoping for.

维尔汀：所以，你们一直在尝试一种方法，强迫盲眼女士成为兀尔德——1999年的兀尔德。
Vertin: You tried every method to force that version of her, a blind woman you had no need of, into becoming Urd again, the one from 1999.

伊戈尔：我们……或者，你可以说，鸽子屋，认为……
Igor: We, or the Pax House, believed that ...

伊戈尔：无论“暴雨”的本质是重塑之手利用灵界捏造了新的灵魂，还是他们通过影响物质宇宙，造成了世界性的记忆与记录偏差……
Igor: No matter the nature of the "Storm," whether Manus Vindictae forged new psyches from the realm of souls or twisted the entire material world to warp memories on a universal scale ...

伊戈尔：解决问题的关键都在于找回最初的兀尔德女士——在“暴雨”安全区建立这间回环实验室，包括开展“灌体”实验，都是为了实现这个目标。
Igor: The key to every question about the "Storm" was tied up in Urd, the original Urd. The Loop Laboratory and the vessel ensoulment experiments conducted here were dedicated to finding that key.

维尔汀：你也想通过找回她来结束这一切吗？
Vertin: Was that your goal to find her and end all this?

伊戈尔：……
Igor: ...

年迈的将军闭了闭眼，似是回忆，又似回避。
The old admiral closes his eyes, either to recall or avoid.

维尔汀：伊戈尔，你也想要重返“暴雨”降临前的时代吗？
Vertin: Igor, do you also want to return to the era before the "Storm"?

答案没有第一时间被给出，伊戈尔靠近白色石屋的一角，像是在寻找什么。
No reply comes. Igor moves to a corner as if searching for something.

伊戈尔：他们果然没来得及带走，和实验资料一起，全都留在了这里……
Igor: Just as I suspected, they didn't have time to evacuate with these materials.

伊戈尔从一堆软盘中翻出一本厚如字典的白色书册。
From a pile of disks, he lifts a white book as thick as a dictionary.

伊戈尔：拿着。
Igor: Take it.

维尔汀：好重……
Vertin: It's heavy.

指腹传来了大理石般冷硬的触感。
Its surface is as cold and hard as marble.

伊戈尔：这是四十三个灵魂的重量。
Igor: The weight of 43 souls combined.

维尔汀：……
Vertin: ...

伊戈尔：我在世界范围内定位、秘密绑架“暴雨”后身份错位的人，换取片刻喘息。
Igor: The souls of those whose identities were "displaced" after the "Storm." I abducted them from all around the world—a way to regain my footing among the ranks.

伊戈尔：我曾经相信，甚至对基金会报以“希望”。我希望“灌体”未来能带回我所珍视的人们。
Igor: I placed my trust, my hope even, in the Foundation, believing that these experiments would one day bring back the people I loved.

维尔汀：可是你最终还是选择了背叛。
Vertin: But you chose to walk away.

伊戈尔：我收殓了四十三具失去灵魂的躯壳。
Igor: 43. Each soul left behind a husk. I buried every one of them.

伊戈尔：而在“暴雨”后我举办过的葬礼次数，远超于此。
Igor: I've buried so many people since the "Storm." I've lost count. I stopped counting.

长者从大衣中掏出了一个黑色的立方体，暗念了一句咒文，它便在手中悠悠悬浮了起来。
He takes the black cube from his coat and murmurs an incantation. It floats above his palm.

伊戈尔：阿尔卡纳的存在并未随肉体湮灭而消失。
Igor: Arcana's body was annihilated, but Her presence endures.

伊戈尔：我能感受到祂无处不在，如同能量的流动……这对神秘学家血脉并不浓厚的我而言，是一份强大的证明。
Igor: Even with my modest lineage, I feel Her presence everywhere, at all times.

伊戈尔：我向祂索求一份跨越暴雨的“奇迹”，这份“奇迹”最初确实让我的军队越过了一次“暴雨”。
Igor: She bestowed on me a "boon" that let my army cross the "Storm." It worked, as She promised.

伊戈尔：但离开南极后，我就无法再次让它生成足以庇佑一人以上的术阵——以它为“路标”寻找新的庇护所，费了我们相当大的精力。
Igor: But after leaving Antarctica, the barrier that "boon" created could shelter only one person. I did still use it as a beacon to find a new sanctuary, but it cost us dearly in time and effort.

伊戈尔：格鲁托夫正是抓住了我们建立庇护所的这段时间，才有了机会在顿河为非作歹。
Igor: Meanwhile, Krutov seized the opportunity to wreak havoc along the Don.

伊戈尔突然笑了笑，停止将神秘术能量灌入“奇迹”。
A bitter smile colors Igor's face, and he stops channeling arcane energy into the "boon."

伊戈尔：这是阿尔卡纳对我的嘲弄——一个混血神秘学家，岂能妄称诺亚。
Igor: This is Arcana's mockery of me—the mixed-blood arcanist who dared mimic Noah.

维尔汀：但现在，你已经利用它找到了属于你自己的方舟。
Vertin: But you managed to build your own ark, didn't you?

对方苦笑一声，不置可否。
He gives a dry laugh that is neither a yes nor a no.

下一秒，伊戈尔将这一份“奇迹”稳稳放在了白色书册之上。
Then he sets the "boon" down on the white book.

“奇迹”躺在白色书册上。伸手触碰时，无处不在的线在触碰它的瞬间绷直，进而消弭在空气中。
When she reaches out to it, the ever-present threads pull taut, then fade into the air.

维尔汀：……？
Vertin: ...?

伊戈尔：我想，你才是带领人们走出洪水的救世主。它真正的主人是你。
Igor: You are the true savior destined to lead us from the flood. Take it.

伊戈尔：回到主题吧，司辰。我已经兑现了诺言，带你找到了回环实验室，也把一些基金会不愿公布的事告诉了你。
Igor: Back to our deal, Timekeeper. I brought you to this laboratory as promised and told you secrets the Foundation would rather keep hidden.

伊戈尔：……价码再加上现在这一份“奇迹”，我想这能为我从你那里换取态度的转变。
Igor: Along with this "boon," I believe I have done enough to earn your favor.

维尔汀：你需要我提供什么？
Vertin: What is it that you want?

伊戈尔：在未来能与你合作的可能性。在必要的时候，我希望我们能互相帮助。
Igor: Only that you consider me a partner in the future, so that we may help each other when the need arises.

维尔汀：我仍是圣洛夫基金会的司辰，你在用生命和自由赌我的态度。
Vertin: I'm still the Timekeeper of the St. Pavlov Foundation. You're betting your life and freedom on nothing more than my favor.

伊戈尔：无妨，这不是我第一次扔下赌注。我坚信你与我都怀有对阿尔卡纳同等的敌意。
Igor: Not my first gamble. I have confidence. You and I share the same enemy in Arcana.

维尔汀：……
Vertin: ...

伊戈尔：还有一件事，格鲁托夫已经戴上面具，接受了试炼，变得比以往任何时候都更危险。
Igor: There's another matter. Krutov has passed the mask trial. He is more dangerous than ever before.

伊戈尔：而在打扫战场时，我们没有在红柳树村或是其他地方发现格鲁托夫的尸体。
Igor: We defeated him at Tamarovka, but there was no sign of his body.

维尔汀：你的意思是……
Vertin: So you're suggesting ...

伊戈尔：重塑之手缺乏有现代军事素养的将领，我认为格鲁托夫未来会成为突破基金会防线的关键人物。
Igor: Manus Vindictae lacks leaders with modern military training. I suspect Krutov will become key to their future conflicts with the Foundation.

把独处时间还给了年轻的基金会职员，长者避开街头人们的欢庆，离开了别列格勒。
Having left the Timekeeper to her devices, Igor slips past the street celebrations and leaves Bereggrad.

莫莉德尔：父亲。
Moldir: Father.

伊戈尔：如你所言，莫莉德尔。司辰和基金会大多数人都不一样。
Igor: As you said, Moldir, the Timekeeper is unlike most of her colleagues.

通讯器那头传来一声轻笑，狮鹫军副官回想起了上一个时代在冰原上的经历。
A soft laugh comes through the communicator. The events at the South Pole are still fresh in her mind.

莫莉德尔：是的。一位神奇的年轻女士，就我在南极期间与司辰小队的“合作”来看，我相信她会走得比基金会更远。
Moldir: She is a truly extraordinary young woman. Based on my collaboration with her team in Antarctica, I'm sure she has prospects beyond the Foundation.

莫莉德尔：我希望你们的会谈取得了好的结果。
Moldir: I hope your meeting brought something of value.

伊戈尔：的确有意外收获。
Igor: It did, to my surprise.

伊戈尔：把在各地执行任务的人召回庇护所，加快人员整备。
Igor: Recall all personnel on the field to the sanctuary. We need to accelerate recruitment and redeployment.

意料外的答复让莫莉德尔哑然了片刻。
Moldir is temporarily rendered silent by the abruptness of this order.

莫莉德尔：是，父亲。
Moldir: Yes, Father.

伊戈尔：如果附近村庄的居民有意加入我们，均予以收容。我们需要尽可能留存生的力量。
Igor: Let the residents of any nearby villages join us if they wish. We need all the strength we can muster.

莫莉德尔：所有人？
Moldir: All of them?

伊戈尔：平民，士兵，人类，神秘学家。
Igor: Civilian or soldier, human or arcanist—take them all in.

将军以不容置疑的坚定态度做出回应。
The admiral answers with unwavering conviction.

伊戈尔：在我回来之前，看好托勒密，别让他惹事。
Igor: And keep an eye on Ptolemy until I return.

伊戈尔：如果我没有回来，狮鹫军的指挥将全权转交于你。
Igor: And should I not return, command of the Gryphon Legion will be transferred to you.

莫莉德尔：父亲？
Moldir: Father?

伊戈尔站在流向地平线尽头的顿河河边，最后一次将目光投向这座古老的城市，然后挂断了通讯器。
Igor, standing on the bank of the Don, gives the old city one last glance and ends the call.

？？？：急着回家吗，老头？
???: What's the rush, old man?

枪口挑开了白发，紧紧贴在伊戈尔的后脑上。
A gun muzzle presses to the back of Igor's head.

伊戈尔：红弩箭中尉，你果然来了。
Igor: I've been expecting you, Lieutenant Lilya.

红弩箭：我很高兴你知道托勒密是个混蛋，这意味着你还不算是个最糟糕的“父亲”。
Lilya: So you recognize that Ptolemy is a good-for-nothing bastard, then? At least you're a better father than you are a soldier.

红弩箭：但很遗憾，做个好父亲不能赦免你的罪和你造成的流血。
Lilya: But being a half-decent father won't save you from the crimes you've committed or the lives you've taken.

红弩箭：我说过，我会亲手把你押上军事法庭。
Lilya: I said it before, I'll say it again: I will personally escort you to the judgment seat.

12TH-25 罪与罚 / Crime and Punishment

芝诺骑兵Ⅰ：这杯是为了芝诺骑兵军！
Zeno Cavalryman I: Raise your glass to the Zeno Cavalry Corps!

斯捷尔诺娃：敬骑兵军，敬飞行中队，敬别列格勒！
Sternova: To the Corps! To the Flying Witches! And to Bereggrad!

高举的橡木酒杯相互碰撞，清澈的澄黄酒液乘着泡沫跳出杯盏。
Oak mugs meet in a toast, golden liquor overflowing at their rims.

阿尔法4号：敬我们！
Alpha Four: To everyone!

芝诺骑兵Ⅱ：哦……这酒不像村里人自己酿的萨莫贡。
Zeno Cavalryman II: Hmm, this is nothing like the samogon we brew in the village.

阿尔法4号：更烈？
Alpha Four: Too fiery for you?

芝诺骑兵Ⅱ：差远了！
Zeno Cavalryman II: Not fiery enough!

骑兵一口气牛饮了整杯啤酒，豪爽地大笑起来。
He drains his mug and lets out a hearty laugh.

芝诺骑兵Ⅱ：再来一杯！
Zeno Cavalryman II: Hit me!

红弩箭笑着坐在欢庆的人群中，脸颊虽然已经挂上微醺的红色，但眼睛仍如鹰一般盯着营帐外塞契的大门。
Lilya sits with the celebrants, cheeks flushed, but her eyes still sharp on the sich gates outside the tent.

直到看见狮鹫军团的士兵们三两结伴离开，她才啐了一口，提起飞行扫帚向外走去。
When she sees the Gryphon soldiers leaving in twos and threes, she spits, picks up her broom, and strides out.

阿尔法4号：你要去哪儿，中队长？你可是庆功宴的主角。
Alpha Four: Where are you going, Commander? You're the star of this party!

红弩箭：拜托别这么叫我，太肉麻了。还是像以前一样，叫我红弩箭。
Lilya: Come on, quit with the titles. Lilya's just fine.

红弩箭：我回城里给你们再取些酒。
Lilya: I'm just going to get some more drinks from the city.

谢尔盖：哦——酒后飞行！
Sergey: Oho, flying under the influence? You sure?

红弩箭：报警抓我。
Lilya: Catch me if you can.

引擎喷出橘色尾焰，仍被命名为红色38的新式飞行扫帚转眼间冲入了云层，消失在众人眼前。
The engine flares orange. Her new broom, carrying Lilya and the name Red 38, shoots into the clouds and disappears.

军长疑惑地看着飞行器尾迹冲向别列格勒，才掀开门帘走进了营帐。
The commander examines the trail toward Bereggrad with a puzzled look. Then he lifts the tent flap and steps inside.

军长伊万：红弩箭中尉去哪里了？
Commander Ivan: Where's Lieutenant Lilya off to?

斯捷尔诺娃：回别列格勒拿酒去了。
Sternova: The city. Said she'll bring back more drinks.

军长掂了掂手中酒瓶的重量，陷入沉思。
Weighing the bottle in his hand, he lapses into silence.

伊戈尔：你期望中的审判恐怕不会发生，中尉。
Igor: I'm afraid there won't be any judgment for me, Lieutenant Lilya.

红弩箭：凭什么这么笃定？你有自信永远不被送上基金会的审判庭？
Lilya: Oh yeah? What's got you so confident?

伊戈尔：重塑之手和基金会的战争还很漫长，在结束之前，抓捕我的命令根本不会下达。
Igor: This war between Manus Vindictae and the Foundation will grind on for a long time to come. They won't give the order to arrest me until it ends.

枪口向前顶了顶，撞在神秘学家的后脑上——不比钢铁坚硬，也不似棉花柔软。
The gun presses harder against his head.

神秘学家与人类的骨结构无异，在子弹面前，这是一处致命的弱点。
An arcanist's skull is like any other. It has no defense against a bullet.

伊戈尔：芝诺害怕引起士气崩溃与外部质疑，于是装模作样地把我们的照片挂上纪功廊。
Igor: They might call us traitors, but still, our names and faces are listed as martyrs in Zeno's Hall of Merit. They know that others doubt, and they fear for their morale.

伊戈尔：当然，现在谁都知道我没有身亡。但逼迫一个可能的第三方成为敌人，对基金会的战略没有任何好处。
Igor: They know I still live, of course. Even so, the Foundation gains nothing from making an enemy of me, so long as I remain a potential ally.

威胁未能引起长者的恐慌，伊戈尔神情自若，平静地回应着身后压抑不住怒火的红弩箭。
The threat brings him no fear. He only answers her anger with measured calm.

伊戈尔：而我在圣保罗所犯下的罪行，已经让基金会与芝诺的各个派别之间出现摆上台面的嫌隙。
Igor: And as a result of my actions in São Paulo, the rift between the Foundation and the various factions of Zeno has been laid bare.

红弩箭：嫌隙……
Lilya: Rift?

在这场由重塑之手推动的战争中，本应作为主要战力的芝诺被联合指挥部派往了遥远的东线。
Zeno should have been at the front lines of this war with Manus Vindictae, yet the joint command sent them to the Eastern Front.

飞行女巫知道他是对的。
Lilya knows he speaks the truth.

红弩箭：如果由基金会主导对你的审判，那将被芝诺视作挑衅。
Lilya: Huh. So if the Foundation put you on trial, it'd be like they're spitting in Zeno's face.

她忍不住斜眼望向天空。
She looks up at the sky despite herself.

几名被她安排了巡逻任务的飞行巫师正从别列格勒上方驶过，基金会灰白的制服让她们有如掠空的白鸽。
The Flying Witches she put on patrol pass overhead. Their gray and white Foundation uniforms make them look like fluttering doves.

红弩箭：鸽子屋会出面的。
Lilya: But the Pax House will intervene.

伊戈尔：即便它的出面会导致基金会与芝诺之间的信任彻底破产？
Igor: Even if their direct intervention would sever all trust between the Foundation and Zeno?

红弩箭：信任……破产？
Lilya: Sever all trust? How?

伊戈尔：芝诺希望所有人遗忘组织在圣保罗受到的屈辱，基金会也不愿意自己在芝诺中安插眼线的事被端上台面。
Igor: The last thing Zeno wants is to relive the shame of São Paulo. Likewise, the Foundation has no desire to reveal how deep their network goes.

伊戈尔：鸽子屋一旦介入，组织间微妙的平衡就难以继续维持。
Igor: If the Pax House intervenes, that delicate balance will crumble.

红弩箭：等等，你刚刚说的眼线，难道说那些在圣保罗被你“放弃”的人……
Lilya: Wait, network? Do you mean the soldiers you "dealt with" in São Paulo?

伊戈尔：有十名人类士兵，四名神秘学家拒绝同我们离开。
Igor: Ten humans and four arcanists refused to join our rebellion.

伊戈尔：其中三人是早已暴露在我们视野中的内应，余下的……
Igor: Three were spies we had long sniffed out. As for the rest ...

伊戈尔闭了闭眼，不再为自己辩驳。
Igor closes his eyes. He won't defend himself any further.

红弩箭：——
Lilya: Ahhh!

红弩箭：他们曾是你的战友！
Lilya: Bulls**t! They were all our comrades, every one of them!

颤抖的手指微微拉动扳机。
A trembling finger tightens on the trigger.

红弩箭：与你并肩，与你的近卫团共进退，同喝最后一滴水，分食最后一口干粮的人们！
Lilya: They fought together with you! Shared their canteens and rations with you!

红弩箭：用任务把他们支走，打晕他们，给他们下药。你明明有无数种方式带着你信任的人偷偷离开！
Lilya: You could've sent them off somewhere! Could've arrested them, knocked them out, put them to sleep! You had a million ways to pull off your rebellion without killing them!

红弩箭：——为什么杀害他们！
Lilya: You chose to murder them! Why?

苍老的呼吸没有因质问而变得更急促，只是更加沉重。
The old man's breath doesn't hasten, but his chest heaves.

伊戈尔：天使兄弟会的人在盯着我们。
Igor: The Apostles Brotherhood was watching.

伊戈尔：为了换取可控的未来，减少无意义的牺牲，这是必要的流血。
Igor: To reach a future free from meaningless sacrifices, some cost must be paid.

红弩箭：你把他们当成了向重塑之手投诚的筹码。
Lilya: So, you used them, ended them so you could go on with the Manus!

伊戈尔：……
Igor: ...

伊戈尔：是的。
Igor: Yes.

红弩箭：你必须为此付出代价。
Lilya: You'll pay for what you did!

伊戈尔：这是我的罪孽，我不会否认或回避它。偿还的日子终究会到来的。
Igor: I've committed many crimes. I will not run from them. I will be ready to surrender my life when the day comes.

伊戈尔：不过，在那之前，我还是能为司辰提供她需要的援助，如同在顿河的这一次。这只是一个开始。
Igor: But it has not come. Until it does, I will continue to assist the Timekeeper. Her fight is only just beginning.

此刻，草原寂静得连风都沉了下来。只有年轻飞行员的呼吸愈发沉重。
The wind drops and the grassland falls still. Only the young pilot's breath grows heavier.

红弩箭：……
Lilya: ...

红弩箭：该死的！！
Lilya: Motherf**ker!

左轮手枪被她烦闷地扔开，疯长的野草将武器拢入怀中，在转轮中扎下了根。
She flings the revolver to the ground, the wild grass swallowing it.

红弩箭：你什么态度？说死就死？你的死代表不了任何东西！
Lilya: Of all the goddamned arrogance! You're ready to die? No, your death won't fix anything!

红弩箭：而且你带走的那些人又怎么办？你甚至还欠洛佩拉一个交代！
Lilya: What about everyone who decided to follow you, huh? What about Lopera? You owe her an explanation!

红弩箭：该死，你说得没错，伊万。
Lilya: Damn it! You were right about this old fart, Ivan.

红弩箭：这老头已经疯了，疯得该被送去小梅斯梅尔那儿狠狠电一电。
Lilya: He's got a screw loose in the brain. Someone should send him to Mesmer Jr. to sort him out!

军长从土坡后走了出来，显然从最开始就隐匿在了审判现场。
The commander steps out from behind a rise. Clearly he has been watching, unseen, from the start.

他注视着伊戈尔，透过对方沧桑的眼睛寻找过去的痕迹。
He studies Igor, searching for a trace of the past in his weathered eyes.

军长伊万：你确实是个疯子，伊戈尔。
Commander Ivan: You are a madman, Igor.

军长伊万：除了重塑之手，这世上哪儿还有敢同时跟芝诺与基金会叫板的神秘学家？
Commander Ivan: Except Manus Vindictae, who else dares challenge Zeno and the Foundation?

军长伊万：而你现在也彻底得罪了重塑之手。你的新军团已经骑虎难下了。
Commander Ivan: And now, even the Manus march against you. Your Legion walks amid tigers.

伊戈尔转向这位老友，态度自若，仿若深陷泥潭的人并不是自己。
Igor turns to his old friend with an unusual calm, as if he weren't sinking into a mire.

伊戈尔：骑虎难下？不……
Igor: Amid tigers? No.

伊戈尔：我的军团会成为一匹翱翔于世界的狮鹫。
Igor: My Legion soars high above, like the indomitable gryphon.

伊戈尔：我的孩子们会用利爪撕碎所有敌人，用羽翼庇护彼此，拉着方舟不断越过时间。
Igor: My children will rend their foes with claws and guard their friends with wings, and they will bear the ark safely through the currents of time.

红弩箭：收收你的雄心壮志。
Lilya: Don't flatter yourself.

红弩箭啐了一声。
Lilya spits.

红弩箭：说得倒轻巧，那些罪可没办法一笔勾销。
Lilya: Nothing you do will ever be enough to atone for what you've done.

军长伊万：的确，没有任何方式能弥补他造成的流血。但也没有任何人能否定他在南极和别列格勒做的一切。
Commander Ivan: Agreed. Still, none can deny his deeds in Antarctica and Bereggrad.

红弩箭：南极……
Lilya: Antarctica ...

红弩箭：我听头儿提过，是你的副官帮助乌尔里希绕过了重塑之手的布防。
Lilya: I heard from the captain that Ulrich bypassed the Manus troops thanks to Lieutenant Moldir.

红弩箭：你暗示的？
Lilya: That your order?

伊戈尔：这是莫莉德尔自我意志下的选择，我并未阻拦她，但也不必将这份高光算在我身上。
Igor: No. This was Moldir's choice. I did not intervene, true, but I cannot take any credit for it.

红弩箭：你这老头……
Lilya: *sigh* Stubborn old fart.

红弩箭：这是最后一次机会。
Lilya: If you step even one toe out of line, you're dead.

红弩箭跨上扫帚，启动引擎前回头看向伊戈尔。
She mounts her broom. Before starting the engine, she looks back at Igor.

她指了指在云层中穿梭的飞行巫师们。
She points up at the Flying Witches in the clouds.

红弩箭：我们会看着你——我会牢牢盯着你。
Lilya: We'll be watching you. I will be watching you.

伊戈尔缓缓点头作为回应。
Igor responds with a slow nod.

一股无名火卡在胸腔里难以释放，红弩箭从鼻腔里发出了“哼”的一声，把引擎转速拉到最大，发泄似地冲上了天。
A shapeless anger sits in Lilya's chest. She snorts and tears into the sky.

军长伊万：我们年轻的时候和她一模一样。
Commander Ivan: We were just like her once.

军长伊万：不容许眼里有沙子，看不惯的东西就用自己的手去摆正，觉得是错误的就亲自去纠正。
Commander Ivan: Young, unable to ignore anything we saw as unjust, compelled to personally right every wrong.

伊戈尔：但没有因此冒着生命危险独自行动过……噢。
Igor: But we never put our lives on the line like her, did we? Ah, wait.

他眉上的疤痕随笑意动了动，眼中流露出怀念。
The scar on his brow moves with his smile. Memory does live in those old eyes.

伊戈尔：你有过。
Igor: You did.

军长伊万：你也是。
Commander Ivan: So did you.

军长伊万：我不知道人到了你这个岁数还会有所变化，伊戈尔。这种变化……也不是我认为理想的方向。
Commander Ivan: I never thought an old cat like you would change his spots. Not a change I favor, mind.

伊戈尔：人和河流一样，一成不变的结果是腐烂。它要找到通往海洋的道路。
Igor: A river turns foul when it halts. We must all find our way to the ocean.

伊戈尔向河边走了两步，靴后的马刺在河滩软泥上划出笔直的线。
Igor steps toward the river, his boot spurs cutting lines in the soft mud at the bank.

伊戈尔：是你劝她把子弹退出来的？
Igor: I suspect you were the one that persuaded the lieutenant to leave her gun unloaded.

军长伊万：你帮了我们一把。
Commander Ivan: I owed you for what you did for the Corps.

军长烦闷地抓了一把自己的头发，走到伊戈尔身边。
The commander runs an agitated hand through his hair and joins Igor.

军长伊万：有烟吗？
Commander Ivan: Got a cigarette?

伊戈尔：戒了。99年之后。
Igor: I quit back in 99.

事业有成、声名显赫的芝诺骑兵军军长薅了一把河边的草。
The famed commander of the Zeno Cavalry pulls a handful of grass from a nearby tuft.

军长伊万：你知道红柳树村一战后，现在骑兵军里有多少孩子想和你走吗？
Commander Ivan: Do you have any idea how many of my silly pups wish to follow you after Tamarovka?

伊戈尔：我找到了一块足够大的净土，这其中也有你和骑兵军的位置。
Igor: I've found a place, somewhere big enough to welcome you and the Corps.

军长伊万：我还不想成为芝诺和基金会的双重通缉犯。
Commander Ivan: I'm not ready to have a bounty on my head.

伊戈尔：但你为我这个“通缉犯”说情了，你是怎么说服红弩箭中尉的？
Igor: But you spoke in this bounty target's defense. What did you say to Lieutenant Lilya?

军长伊万：用一颗子弹了结你，还是让你永远活在背负鲜血的痛苦里。
Commander Ivan: I gave her a choice: end your life with a bullet, or let you live bearing the pain of your guilt.

伊戈尔：你怎么能确定我不是一个冷血的，不会感受到痛苦的叛徒？
Igor: Did you ever consider that I might just be a cold-hearted tyrant? That I feel no guilt at all?

伊戈尔：就像你说的，“暴雨”后，我们都变了很多。
Igor: We've all changed since the "Storm."

军长伊万：遗书，老朋友。
Commander Ivan: I read your letter, old friend.

军长伊万：这是死亡的力量，它比任何吐真剂都来得强大。
Commander Ivan: No truth serum could tell me more than it did.

军长伊万：“我玷污了我们曾最引以为傲的荣耀。”
Commander Ivan: "I tarnished with my own hands the honor we once held dear."

军长伊万：“莫莉，请告诉洛佩拉……”
Commander Ivan: "Molly, please tell Lopera that—"

军长执信的手边裂开一道漆黑的神秘术辉光，自黑暗而来的巨口叼住信纸，咀嚼着把信拖回了虚无中。
A dark arcane glow appears by the letter. A shadowy mouth emerges from it, chews it down, and drags it into the void.

伊戈尔手中的罐子闪烁了一瞬，一只萤火虫悠悠坠落在瓶底。
The jar in Igor's hand flickers. A firefly dims and falls to the bottom.

军长伊万：认真的吗？让你老态龙钟的身体变得更脆弱，只为了保护这点隐私？
Commander Ivan: Really? Running your old bones deeper into the ground just to protect your privacy?

伊戈尔：哈，隐私，我以为你不知道这个词是什么意思呢。
Igor: Ha, privacy. I thought you'd never heard of the word!

军长伊万：我可不是故意的。这两天士兵们嚷嚷着想把遗书领回去。是你自己没有写好名字，才让这封信落了下来。
Commander Ivan: I didn't mean to pry. The soldiers were getting their letters. Yours was the only one with no name.

军长伊万：……
Commander Ivan: ...

军长伊万：明天一早，我会带骑兵军离开顿河，他们很多人都不会再有机会回到家乡。
Commander Ivan: We ride out come morning. We all know that many of us will never return.

军长伊万：就此别过之前，你还有一次去骑兵军塞契的机会。
Commander Ivan: You still have a chance to come to the sich before we leave.

伊戈尔：你想让我带走那些年轻人？
Igor: You want me to take those young soldiers in?

军长伊万：这不该是他们的战争。
Commander Ivan: This was never meant to be their war.

红弩箭的飞行器在天空留下一道久不消散的痕迹。
Lilya's aircraft has left a lingering line across the sky.

军长伊万：他们理应见到下一个春天。
Commander Ivan: They deserve to see the new spring.

五天后
Five days later

伊里内伊：位于基金会内部，无需额外提起外出申请，但又绝对保密的场所。你比我想象中更谨慎，司辰。
Irinei: Located in a Foundation facility, completely confidential, and no field mission application required. You're more thoughtful than I expected, Timekeeper.

维尔汀：消失太久总归会有人起疑，我们的时间很紧迫，伊里内伊委员。
Vertin: Let's make the most of our time, Mr. Irinei, before our absence draws unnecessary attention.

伊里内伊：我理解了，那就让我们长话短说。
Irinei: Then let's cut to the chase.

伊里内伊：关于你在琥珀屋实验室回收的情报——关于“灌体”实验。
Irinei: About the vessel ensoulment experiments conducted in the Amber Room laboratory.

伊里内伊：你知道了多少？
Irinei: What have you learned?

维尔汀：……
Vertin: ...

维尔汀：很遗憾，除了最基本的实验步骤外……
Vertin: I managed to recover documents detailing the experiment's main procedures. However ...

维尔汀：实验室里没有留下更多与兀尔德有关的信息。
Vertin: I didn't find anything signiﬁcant about Urd.
